Introduction
We will focus - God willing - in this introduction, and in the chapters preceding the first section, on addressing the following issues:
The civilizational identity in Islam constitutes a source of fear for the West due to its embodiment in a system of life and way of living, and for its valuable moral assets and its intellectual strength capable of revitalizing the Ummah.
Key features in the West's strategy for waging war against Islam and keeping the Islamic Ummah fragmented and under dependency.
Features of the clash of civilizations between Islamic and Western civilization:
We will discuss the impossibility of the intermingling of civilizations,
and focus on the sources of strength in Islamic civilization,
and reveal the emptiness of Western civilization from the elements that qualify it to triumph in this conflict,
and highlight some of the dimensions that this Western civilization has left on humanity and life.
Why all this fear of Islam?
One of the prominent figures in strategic planning for the United States, the famous contemporary Zionist orientalist "Bernard Lewis," said: "Our custom in the Western world has been that: the more the Easterners turn to us, the more we cling to the West to make ourselves an example of virtue and progress. If they imitate us, we consider that a good thing, and if they do not, we consider that bad and evil; progress is in imitating us, while if they do not follow us, that is regression and decline!! However, this is not necessarily the case, for when two civilizations collide, one dominates and the other is shattered, idealists and thinkers may eloquently and easily talk about a mingling of the best elements of both civilizations, yet the ordinary result of this encounter is coexistence between the worst elements of both."(2)
Bernard Lewis also wrote: "Today's terrorism is part of a long struggle between Islam and the West... The moral system upon which Islam is based is different from that of Western Christian/Jewish civilization, and the verses of the Qur'an validate the practice of violence against non-Muslims... This war is a war between religions"(3).
The American strategic thinker "Fukuyama" wrote: "The current conflict is not simply against terrorism, but against the Islamic fundamentalist doctrine, which stands against Western modernity and against the secular state, and this fundamentalist ideology represents a more fundamental danger than the communist threat, and what is required is a war within Islam, so that it accepts Western modernity and Western secularism and the Christian principle: 'Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's'"(4)! Former President "Nixon" explained the Americans' intent regarding "Islamic fundamentalism" in his book: "The Opportunity" saying: "They are the ones who...
__________
(2) - Bernard Lewis – The West and the Middle East – Translated by Nabil Sobhi – Beirut – n.d. – p. 60, quoted from The Emergence of Islamic Civilization by Professor Ahmad al-Qasas.
(3) In "Newsweek" (January 14, 2004).
(4) In the annual issue of "Newsweek" (December 2001 – February 2002).
