They want to revive Islamic civilization, apply the Islamic Sharia, and make Islam both a religion and a state. Although they look to the past, they take guidance from it for the future. They are not conservatives but revolutionaries!"(5)
Following the course of these testimonies, Margaret Thatcher, the former British Prime Minister, said: "The challenge of Islamic terrorism includes even those who condemned the events of 11 September, Bin Laden and the Taliban; it includes all those who reject Western values and whose interests conflict with the West."(6)
These are testimonies from makers of strategic decisions, thinkers and political leaders who directed policy towards the Muslim world, and this is their view of the nature of the conflict.
The imperialist current in America put forward the idea of countering extremism (De-radicalization) and manufacturing a "moderate" modernist Islam in line with Western standards and values. The RAND Corporation, supported by the US State Department, adopted this line through several studies, the best known of which is the report of the researcher Cheryl Benard, "Civil Democratic Islam", in 2004. In this well-known RAND report, Benard called for supporting the intellectual currents "closest to the system of Western values". She divided the Arab intellectual currents into fundamentalists, traditionalists, modernists and secularists. After vague definitions of these classifications, she called for supporting the modernists and secularists and combating the fundamentalists, the traditionalists and Sufism. The report detailed how to support the "partners" by "publishing their books and including their ideas in education" and "giving them platforms". It recommended exposing the "fundamentalists", "training the modernists to debate them", "proving their links to illegal groups and activities", "encouraging journalists to investigate cases of corruption and immoral conduct among the fundamentalists" and "encouraging division among the fundamentalists". We can trace the support for Sufism through the prominence given to Ali al-Jifri and Abdullah bin Bayyah, and for the modernists through Adnan Ibrahim, Muhammad Shahrur and Turki al-Hamad. The statement of Rex Tillerson, the former US Secretary of State, about his success in persuading Arab states to amend their religious curricula, withdraw the old ones and train imams and preachers in new "moderate" curricula, all of it flows into proving this direction under the name of countering extremism.(7) Benard's report was followed by another report issued by the RAND Center in 2007 entitled "Building Moderate Muslim Networks"(8). It runs to 217 pages and took three years of research to prepare. It calls for Americanizing the concept of moderation and for dismantling and dividing the Muslim ranks. The first sentence of this study was: "The war in most of the Muslim world today is a war of ideas"
(The war in most of the Muslim world nowadays is a war of thoughts)
Among the recommendations adopted in that report:
Supporting the moderates according to the American vision in order to confront the Islamists. Warning against the role of the mosque in political opposition, and against the secular current being unable to use this platform. A comparison between the Cold War with the Soviet Union and the present stage, in which the adversary is Islam. Defining the features of moderation in the American sense, and the report sets out
__________
(5) Nixon, Seize the Moment, pp. 140-141, translated by Ahmad Sidqi Murad, 1992; and al-Usuliyyah bayna al-Gharb wa al-Islam (Fundamentalism between the West and Islam) by Dr. Muhammad Imarah, p. 15.
(6) Al-Usuliyyah bayna al-Gharb wa al-Islam by Dr. Muhammad Imarah.
(7) A reading of the American Islam project and the rise of Sufi and modernist activity, Talal al-Khudr, Al Jazeera Blogs.
(8) http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2007/RAND_MG574.pdf
