According to the U.S. Department of Defense, there have been 17 military operations in the Middle East, all of which targeted Muslims, a number that military history has not recorded for the United States against any other people from any other civilization."
When I asked Lesley Stahl, the CBS news anchor, about the arrogant U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright: "Do you consider the blood of half a million Iraqi children, the genocide of all those victims, a price worth paying for the operation?" the arrogant Democrat Albright replied: "I think this is a very difficult choice, but the price, as we see, is worth it."(11)
It is well known that the operation was for oil, the interests of major American companies, and to tighten America's control, sovereignty, and colonization of the region, imposing its way of life on Iraq and its people.
"They know that we own their country; we impose upon them the way they live and speak, and this is the great thing for America at the moment. It is a good thing, especially when there is a large amount of oil that we are in dire need of." General William Looney, commander of the U.S. Air Force that bombed Iraq.(12)
On January 7, 1991, former American President Richard Nixon clarified in the New York Times that "we are not going there to defend democracy because Kuwait is not a democratic country, and there is no democratic country in the region, and we are not going there to defend international legitimacy; we are going there and we have to do so because we will not allow anyone to harm our vital interests"(13).
Huntington wrote in his famous book (The Clash of Civilizations): "The problem for the West is not the problem of Islamic fundamentalists, but the problem lies in Islam itself, which possesses a different civilization whose adherents believe in its superiority... The problem is in the West itself, which has a different civilization whose adherents believe in its superiority and suitability as a global system, and they wish to impose this civilization on the world."(14) And let us emphasize the phrase "impose this civilization on the world."
The Western strategy in the war against Islam; pivotal features:
The plans of the West to destroy Islam have progressed according to pivotal strategic steps, some of which we mention(15):
First: The elimination of Islamic rule by ending the Islamic caliphate represented by the Ottoman state, despite the fact that its rule - in its last centuries - was far from the spirit of Islam, yet the enemies feared that this caliphate could transform from a nominal caliphate into a real caliphate that would pose a threat to them. And because the abolition of rule by Sharia (Islamic law) would necessarily exclude most of Islam from existence in reality, it would pave the way for
__________
(11) See the comparison at this link, as well as John Pilger: New World Rulers, p. 80.
(12) The New Rulers of the World, John Pilger, p. 80.
(13) The Tyrannical America and the Policy of World Domination "Globalization", Michael Bognon-Mourdant, p. 142.
(14) Abdul Hai Zalloum: Islam... the new enemy after communism and the United States and its allies is the "breeder of terrorism"
(15) See: Western leaders say: Destroy Islam, exterminate its people, for the glory of the world.
