their control over a single state will attract the masses of Muslims, enabling them to overthrow all the regimes in the region and establish a fundamentalist Islamic empire from Spain to Indonesia." The former British Home Secretary Charles Clarke stated in a speech at the Heritage Institute on 6/10/2005: "There can be no negotiations regarding the restoration of the caliphate, nor is there room for discussion about the implementation of Islamic law." George Bush declared in a speech to the American nation on 8/10/2005: "The armed insurgents believe that by seizing one country, they will lead the Islamic peoples and enable them to overthrow all moderate governments in the region, thus establishing an extremist Islamic empire extending from Spain to Indonesia." On 5/12/2005, U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld commented on the future of Iraq during a talk at Johns Hopkins University: "Iraq will serve as the base for the new Islamic caliphate that will extend to include the Middle East and threaten legitimate governments in Europe, Africa, and Asia; this is their plan, they have stated it, and we will commit a terrible mistake if we fail to listen and learn." The American commentator Karl Vick wrote in the Washington Post on 14/1/2006, in a lengthy report, that "the revival of the Islamic caliphate, which is attacked by President George Bush, resonates among the vast majority of Muslims," noting that "Muslims see themselves as part of the 'Ummah' that forms the heart of Islam, and they view the caliph as a person worthy of respect." This commentator pointed out that "the Hizb al-Tahrir, which is active in several countries around the world, declares that its goal is to restore the caliphate to its former glory." In a book published in 2007 titled "The Fall and Rise of Islamic State" by Harvard Law School professor Noah Feldman, he "affirms that the popular resurgence of Islamic law in the current era, despite its previous decline, could lead to a successful Islamic caliphate." Feldman states in his book: "Empires and forms of governance, when they fall, fall irretrievably, as happened with communism and the ruling monarchy, except in only two cases currently: the first is democracy, which was prevalent in the Roman empires, and in the 'case of the Islamic state'..." The author observes a strong and growing phenomenon from Morocco to Indonesia, which is "that Islamic peoples are demanding the return of Sharia, especially in countries with large populations such as Egypt and Pakistan," questioning: "Why are people now calling for the return of Sharia and being drawn to it, even though their ancestors in modern times rejected it and described it as a relic of the distant past?" He states, "Among the reasons is that current rulers have failed before the peoples, including the West, and that Islamic peoples lack justice today"; adding that "there is no real class of scholars or a true class of judges as there was in the past in Islamic states until now." Dr. Ahmed al-Qadidi, a Tunisian residing abroad, states in an article published in the Qatari newspaper Al-Sharq on 17/5/2006 titled "American Scholars Predict the Return of the Caliphate by 2020": "On page 83 of the alarming report recently issued by the Parisian publishing house 'Robert Laffont' titled: 'How Does the American Intelligence See the World in 2020?' we read the following paragraph: 'Political Islam will enjoy widespread global dissemination from now until 2020, and we expect that ethnic and national Islamic movements will connect with each other and may seek to establish authority that transcends national borders.'" He continues: "This is precisely what American scholars expect, the most famous of whom is the sociologist and foremost futurist expert Alvin Toffler, the author of...
