And he made the concepts of good and evil rational, as Muhammad Abduh makes "the precedence of reason over the apparent law in cases of conflict (26) a principle of the foundations of Islam"!!(27) It is based on "attacking imitation and demanding a reconsideration of Islamic legislation as a whole without restriction ... and fatwas emerged that divide usury into apparent usury, which is the usury of delay where the debt multiplies many times, and hidden usury, which is usury of excess, and only the usury of delay is prohibited, ... and fatwas emerged that prohibit polygamy and prohibit divorce ... Thus, ijtihad (independent reasoning) ultimately transformed into a development of Islamic law aimed at matching Western civilization or getting as close to it as the texts allow in interpretation, at least"(28).
The esteemed Sayyid Qutb, may Allah have mercy on him, had very eloquent words in analyzing the reasons for the existence of this intellectual school and its extremely harmful consequences on the Islamic worldview, as he said, may Allah have mercy on him - with slight modification -: "As for the research written to respond to a specific deviation, it in turn created another deviation; the closest example of this in this regard is the teachings of Muhammad Abduh and the lectures of Muhammad Iqbal on the topic of 'renewing religious thought in Islam.' Muhammad Abduh faced a rigid intellectual environment that closed the door of ijtihad and denied reason its role in understanding Allah's law and deriving rulings from it, relying instead on the books authored by later scholars in periods of intellectual stagnation, which at the same time depended on superstitions and popular religious perceptions. He also faced a period when 'reason' was worshipped in Europe and was taken as a deity by its people, especially after the scientific conquests that achieved great victories for knowledge, and after a period of dominance of rational philosophy that deified reason, along with an attack from Orientalists on the Islamic worldview and the belief in divine decree within it, claiming that it 'disabled human reason' and human effort from 'positivity' in life 'because of this belief.' So when he wanted to confront this specific environment by affirming the value of 'reason' in relation to 'text,' reviving the idea of 'ijtihad' and combating superstition, ignorance, and popular thought in 'Islamic thought,' and then proving that Islam gave reason its value and its role in religion and life, and not as the 'Franks' claim that it condemned Muslims to 'absolute compulsion' and loss of 'choice,' when Muhammad Abduh sought to confront intellectual stagnation in the East and the temptation of reason in the West, he made 'human reason' a counterpart to revelation in guiding humanity, and did not limit it to being merely one of the faculties of the human being that receives revelation. He prevented any conflict between the concept of reason and what revelation brings, and did not confine reason to understanding what it can understand and accepting what is beyond its understanding, since it - along with human existence as a whole - is neither universal nor absolute, limited by the boundaries of time and space, while revelation addresses absolute truths at times, such as the truth of divinity and how divine will relates to the creation of events, and reason has no choice but to submit to these absolute universals, which it has no way of comprehending. Muhammad Abduh presented an argument that seems logical, but it stems from the desire to correct that specific environmental deviation that despises reason and neglects its role. Muhammad Abduh said in his message on monotheism: 'Revelation through divine message is an effect of Allah, and human reason is an effect of Allah in existence, and the effects of Allah must be consistent with one another and not contradict one another.'
__________
(26) This sentence is incorrect; reason cannot be made a judge over the law until it is said that there is a conflict. For example: usury is forbidden, and reason has no role in judging the validity or invalidity of this legislation to even claim that there is a conflict at all!
(27) Fundamentalism between the West and Islam, Dr. Muhammad Imara, p. 12.
(28) Islam and Western Civilization, Dr. Muhammad Muhammad Hussein, p. 50.
