Islamic law (Sharia) is comprehensive and vast, but it is not flexible.
We find that Islam (which is the mercy bestowed upon all of humanity) has addressed these human problems and their like according to a comprehensive system of harmonious and cohesive rulings, the application of which leads to the realization of those objectives, in accordance with a stable and firm divine perspective. The following points will be mentioned briefly, and we will elaborate on them throughout the book, God willing:
The evidence of the ability of Islamic law to accommodate new developments, and its containing a legal ruling for every new matter, is through the established legal texts: ﴾Today I have perfected for you your religion and completed My favor upon you and have chosen for you Islam as religion﴿, ﴾And We have sent down to you the Book as clarification for all things﴿. These verses affirm the existence of a legal ruling for everything that occurs, due to the incapacity of human intellect to encompass the entirety of the Sharia.
To say that our Sharia has not addressed certain matters implies that the Sharia is incomplete, and this assertion is categorically rejected.
"An issue: The religion has been completed, so it cannot be increased or decreased or altered. Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Today I have perfected for you your religion﴿ and He said: ﴾There is no changing the words of Allah﴿, and deficiency and increase are alterations. The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) conveyed the entire religion and clarified all of it as Allah commanded him: Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And indeed, you guide to a straight path, the path of Allah﴿ and He said: ﴾So that you may clarify to the people what has been revealed to them﴿. And the proof of Allah, Exalted is He, has been established and made clear to all who have received the warning, whether believer or disbeliever, righteous or wicked. Allah, the Mighty and Majestic, said: ﴾There is no compulsion in religion; the right course has become clear from the wrong﴿ and He said: ﴾So that those who perish might perish by proof, and those who live might live by proof﴿"(292).
As for ijtihad (independent juristic reasoning) in its correct concept, it is "exerting effort to derive legal rulings from their detailed evidence." It has been the avenue through which the Muslim mind seeks to benefit from the ruling of Allah in new issues and matters. The legal method that Muslims adhered to during the early periods, the periods of their renaissance, in addressing problems and issues was to study the problem or issue in reality with deep and precise examination that leads to understanding the essence of the problem and the core of the issue, which is called "achieving the relevant context"; then returning to the legal texts, that is, to the detailed evidence related to that reality to derive the ruling or rulings that those evidences guide to, and then applying them to reality in such a way that the problem is solved or the issue is addressed through the revelation that was sent down to the Messenger, upon him and his family be the best and most complete peace and blessings. In this, there is no consideration whatsoever for the compatibility or contradiction with Western legislations; they do not even enter the mind.
When Muslims were attacked by Westerners with Western legislation, in desperate attempts to cast doubt on its ability to coexist and keep pace with the "age of space and atoms," and to stand against positivist principles, and challenged the Islamic system with the capitalist system, Muslims were astonished by the tremendous industrial revolution that occurred in the West, and they fell into responding to this challenge on the wrong front that was set for them; which is that the Western system addresses problems with such solutions that do not exist in Islam, and thus they linked in their minds the capitalist solutions to problems with the greatness of inventions and industries, and they began searching in Islam for solutions to these problems as they were addressed by Western legislation (insurance, banking systems, etc.).
__________
(292) Al-Muhalla bil-Athar > Book of Tawhid > Issue: The religion has been completed, so it cannot be increased or decreased or altered.
