Did our master al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) change his school of thought due to a change in location?
For it is one of the most astonishing things we hear as we see some trying to demonstrate that the legal ruling changes with a change in location, citing that al-Shafi'i (may Allah have mercy on him) changed his school of thought upon moving from Baghdad to Egypt, to the extent that one of them had the audacity to say: "It was only the distance of the road until he changed his school of thought!"
Thus, following the habit of exploiting generalities without considering their reality, such statements are promoted in this era, which necessitated clarifying the ignorance of those who make such claims in this manner.
It is mentioned in al-Bidaya wa al-Nihaya in volume ten, summarized as follows: "Al-Shafi'i (may Allah have mercy on him) was born in the year 150 AH in Gaza, and his father died while he was young, so his mother took him to Mecca when he was two years old so that his lineage would not be lost. He grew up there and memorized the Qur'an when he was seven years old, memorized al-Muwatta when he was ten, and issued fatwas when he was fifteen years old.
He was appointed to the judiciary in Najran in the land of Yemen, but they became hostile towards him and informed al-Rashid that he sought the caliphate, so he was brought on a mule in chains to Baghdad, entering it in the year 184 AH at the age of thirty. He met with al-Rashid and debated with Muhammad ibn al-Hasan in front of al-Rashid, and Muhammad ibn al-Hasan spoke well of him, and it became clear to al-Rashid that he was innocent of what was attributed to him, and Muhammad ibn al-Hasan accommodated him.
Al-Shafi'i returned to Mecca and distributed most of what he had to his family and relatives from his cousins, then he returned to Iraq in the year 195 AH, where he met a group of scholars this time, including Ahmad ibn Hanbal, Abu Thawr, and others... Then he returned to Mecca and then returned to Baghdad in the year 198 AH, and then moved from there to Egypt, where he remained until he died in this year, the year 204 AH... He authored his book al-Um there, which is one of his new books because it was narrated by al-Rabi' ibn Sulayman, who was Egyptian."
Thus, al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) resided in Egypt for nearly six years.
A quick look at the principles of Imam al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him):
Imam al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) said: "So I said to him: 'It is only for the scholars who possess intellect among the people of knowledge to speak based on a report or analogy, and they should not deviate from either of them in our view and in your view."(294)
He (may Allah have mercy on him) also said: "The foundation of what Muhammad ibn al-Hasan goes to in jurisprudence is that it is not permissible to speak about anything in jurisprudence except based on a necessary report or analogy, and this is from his saying that it is not a necessary report in what I know and is the opposite of analogy."(295)
It is well known that the principles of Imam al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) are based on the Qur'an, the Sunnah, consensus (ijma), and analogy (qiyas), and his definition of analogy is: "It is the linking of a matter not explicitly stated regarding its ruling to a matter explicitly stated regarding its ruling due to their sharing in the reason, thus linking similar cases to similar cases and examples to examples."
__________
(294) Al-Um by al-Shafi'i > Various chapters on marriage and divorce, etc. > What has been narrated regarding marriage > What has been narrated regarding the number of free women and slaves and what is permissible for the private parts
(295) Al-Um by al-Shafi'i > The book of the refutation of Muhammad ibn al-Hasan > Retribution between slaves and free men
