Then I inform you, for Allah, Exalted and Majestic, revealed: ﴾And do not say about anything, "Indeed, I will do that tomorrow," except if Allah wills.﴿ And a woman came to him, complaining about Aws ibn al-Samit, and he did not respond to her until it was revealed to him: ﴾Indeed, Allah has heard the statement of the one who argues with you concerning her husband.﴿ And al-Ajlani came to him, accusing his wife of adultery, and he said: "No revelation has been sent down regarding you two, so wait for the revelation." When Allah, Exalted and Majestic, revealed to him, he called them and invoked the curse between them, as Allah, Exalted and Majestic, commanded. He elaborated on the argument based on the Book, the Sunnah, and reason, in refuting the ruling based on what a person finds pleasing without referencing the Book, the Sunnah, and consensus(298).
Thus, al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) does not refer except to the Book and the Sunnah and what they guide to, unanimously, and he did not consider the place as one of the principles or branches upon which he relies in his fatwa. This shows the extent of the deception of those who claim that the change in some of al-Shafi'i's (may Allah be pleased with him) fatwas in Egypt from what they were in his old school is due to the change of place.
In a previous chapter, we clarified the method of legal reasoning (ijtihad), and we saw the importance of reality in understanding Allah's ruling on a matter, to the extent that they said: "Asking well is half of religion," and good questioning only clarifies and accurately describes the reality. If two Muslims each pronounced an oath of divorce on their wives in a specific situation, with specific words that differ between them, and they brought their case to the judge, there is no doubt that he would investigate the reality in all its aspects. Was the oath pronounced while the woman was in a state of purity? Was the husband angry to the point that he did not understand what he was saying? And so forth. All of this understanding of reality will lead to a specific fatwa that differs from the fatwa that will pertain to the other. Here, the grounds for the occurrence of divorce may be established for one of them and not for the other. This is not called a change in fatwa based on place or time, but rather based on reality, and the legal rulings have come to judge the different realities with specific legal rulings.
For example, if a Muslim performs two bowings (rukus) in his prayer intentionally, his prayer is invalid. However, if he is praying the eclipse prayer, then his prayer is valid with two bowings. Thus, the ruling differs with the change of reality. From here, the reality in which al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) issued a fatwa regarding an incident that occurred in Egypt may differ from that in Iraq, and it is natural for the legal ruling to differ regarding them. If the incident that occurred in Baghdad were to be repeated in China or Egypt, his ruling would be the same.
Moreover, a scholar continues to learn until he dies; new evidence may come to him that he was not aware of, or he may understand the evidence in a way different from his previous understanding due to the expansion of his knowledge or hearing the opinions of other scholars. It is natural for him to change the fatwa according to the change of evidence or the change in understanding of the evidence. What was considered abrogating may become clear that it is not abrogating, and he may receive a hadith that he had not previously received. For example, it is mentioned in the History of Baghdad: "I heard Abdul Rahman ibn Mahdi say: We were at a funeral where Ubayd Allah ibn al-Hasan was present, and he was in charge of the judiciary. When the bier was placed down, he sat, and the people sat around him. I asked him about a matter in which he made a mistake, and I said: 'May Allah improve you, the ruling in this matter is such and such, but I did not intend this; rather, I wanted to elevate you to something greater than this.' He pondered for a moment, then raised his head and said: 'If I return, I return while I am humbled; it is more beloved to me to be a sinner in the truth than to be a leader in falsehood.'”(299).
__________
(298) The Rulings of the Qur'an by al-Shafi'i > Chapter on the Invalidity of Istihsan
(299) History of Baghdad by al-Khatib al-Baghdadi, p. 1951
