It is indeed astonishing that Imam al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) spent most of his life in Yemen and Mecca, and in Baghdad and Medina, where he spent nearly sixteen years studying under Malik (may Allah be pleased with him), yet we have not heard of him having an Iraqi school, a Yemeni school, a Meccan school, or a Medinan school. If the difference in location were to necessitate a change in rulings for al-Shafi'i, he would have had as many schools as there were places he resided in. However, we have only heard of new and old opinions on certain issues, which indicates that the opinion changed not due to a change in location or time, but rather due to a change in his understanding of certain evidences or the arrival of evidences to him that had not reached him before.
Similarly, it may be that we find two opinions from a jurist based on two narrations reported from him, which means that the issue consists of narrations and not locations!
It is truly remarkable that the principles of al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) themselves contain no reference to location or time as factors that affect legal rulings, while we see the contemporary jurists adding these as factors to his principles, claiming that they are the reason for changes that occurred in his school of thought.
Moreover, one who studies most of the jurists of this nation will see that many of them have multiple opinions on many issues. For example, in the books of jurisprudence, one might find: "according to one opinion of Malik," does this mean that the school changed due to a change in time or place?
Furthermore, the issues that have emerged in the jurisprudence of al-Shafi'i are general issues that concern every Muslim in every time and place. The Book of al-Um, which represents, according to some narrations, his new school of thought, contains issues ranging from purification to pilgrimage to almsgiving and others. On what basis can it be said that his school changed due to his presence in Egypt? Do the rulings of pilgrimage, prayer, and almsgiving pertain only to the people of Egypt and not to others? Or does the pilgrimage of Egyptians differ from that of Iraqis? Do the proponents of this erroneous opinion think that Islam has different versions, with each people having their own version? And their own legislation?
And all praise is due to Allah, Lord of the worlds.
