The establishment of the Islamic state, that is, the Caliphate, is the means through which the objectives for which Allah sent the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) and for which He revealed the Book are achieved!
Otherwise, Islam is not a fanciful philosophy, but rather it was revealed to be implemented and to govern. It has been established that these rulings are to be enacted in the lives of Muslims through a state that governs them,(307) which adheres to a system of governance prescribed by Sharia, which the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) called the State of Caliphate,(308) and he established it as a reality, along with its institutions and laws. Thus, a state was effectively established, and the only course of action for the Companions (may Allah be pleased with them) regarding it was to continue what the Master of Creation (peace and blessings be upon him) initiated concerning it. It is a state whose foundations are based on the actions of the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) and on the rulings that represent the majority of the Qur'an and Sunnah, which were revealed to be implemented through it, and the Companions unanimously agreed on its obligation, and its obligation has been transmitted with a significant degree of certainty. Such a state cannot be ignored in terms of existence, governance, and institutions, nor can it be claimed to be a non-essential human system except by one who is ignorant!
The Miraculous Nature of the Sharia
__________
(307) Refer to our book: Did the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) specify a method for establishing the Islamic state? It contains detailed and strong evidence that the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) was working towards the establishment of the state. Ibn Taymiyyah states in his book Al-Siyasah Al-Shar'iyyah, p. 114, and in Majmu' Al-Fatawa, vol. 28, p. 390: "It must be known that the leaders of the people are among the greatest duties of the religion, and there is no establishment of the religion without them, for the interests of mankind cannot be fulfilled except through their coming together due to their mutual needs, and they must have a head when they gather." Dr. Diaa Al-Din Al-Rais states in his book Islam and the Caliphate, p. 99: "The caliphate is the most important religious position and concerns all Muslims. The Islamic Sharia has stipulated that establishing the caliphate is a fundamental obligation of the religion, and it is indeed the greatest obligation because the implementation of all other obligations depends on it." See: Tanbih Al-Ghafileen wa I'lam Al-Ha'ireen that the re-establishment of the caliphate is one of the greatest duties of this religion by Sheikh Ali Bin Hajj.
(308) In the Sunan of Abu Dawood, it is narrated: "Ahmad ibn Saleh narrated to us, Asad ibn Musa narrated to us, Muawiya ibn Saleh narrated to me from Dumra that Ibn Zughb al-Ayadi narrated to him, saying: Abdullah ibn Hawala al-Azdi came to me and said: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) sent us to gain spoils on our feet, but we returned without gaining anything, and the hardship was evident on our faces. He stood among us and said: 'O Allah, do not leave them to me, so I may weaken them, nor leave them to themselves, so they may be unable to cope, nor leave them to the people, so they may take advantage of them.' Then he placed his hand on my head or said on my forehead, and then said: 'O Ibn Hawala, when you see the caliphate has descended upon the Holy Land, then earthquakes and calamities and great matters will be near, and the Hour at that time will be closer to the people than my hand is to your head.' Abu Dawood said: Abdullah ibn Hawala is from Hamah." And Muslim narrated: "Hudab ibn Khalid al-Azdi narrated to us, Hamad ibn Salama narrated from Samak ibn Harb, who said: I heard Jabir ibn Samura say: I heard the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) say: 'Islam will continue to be honored until there are twelve caliphs.'" From al-Arbad ibn Sariya, he said: "Then the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) gave us a profound sermon one day after the Fajr prayer, from which the eyes shed tears and the hearts trembled. A man said: 'This is a farewell sermon; what do you advise us with, O Messenger of Allah?' He said: 'I advise you to fear Allah, to listen and obey, even if an Ethiopian slave is appointed over you. For whoever among you lives will see much disagreement. Beware of newly invented matters, for they are misguidance. Whoever among you reaches that, then hold on to my Sunnah and the Sunnah of the rightly guided caliphs; cling to it with your molar teeth.'" Muslim narrated: "From Furāt al-Qazzaz from Abu Hazim, who said: I sat with Abu Huraira for five years, and I heard him narrate from the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) that he said: 'The Children of Israel were governed by their prophets; whenever a prophet died, another would succeed him. There will be no prophet after me, but there will be caliphs, and they will be many.' They asked: 'What do you command us?' He said: 'Fulfill the pledge to the first one and then the next, and give them their rights, for Allah will question them about what He entrusted them with.'" "Prophethood will remain among you as long as Allah wills it to remain, then He will take it away when He wills. Then there will be a caliphate upon the methodology of prophethood, and it will be as long as Allah wills it to be, then He will take it away when He wills. Then there will be a tyrannical kingship, and it will be as long as Allah wills it to be, then He will take it away when He wills. Then there will be a jabrī kingship, and it will be as long as Allah wills it to be, then He will take it away when He wills. Then there will be a caliphate upon the methodology of prophethood, and then he fell silent." This hadith is good; it was narrated by Ahmad (30/355 Hadith 18406), al-Bazzar, and al-Tabarani in al-Awsat (6577). Ahmad's chain is good; in it is Dawood ibn Ibrahim al-Wasiti, who was narrated from by al-Tayalisi, and he was trusted, and Ibn Hibban mentioned him among the trustworthy. The hadith was also narrated by al-Tayalisi, al-Bayhaqi in al-Minhaj al-Nubuwwah, and al-Tabari, and the hadith was authenticated by al-Albani in al-Silsilah al-Sahihah, and it was deemed good by al-Arna'ut. There is also a supporting narration from Safinah (may Allah be pleased with him), who said: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "The caliphate in my Ummah will last for thirty years, then there will be kingship after that." Then Safinah said: "Hold on to the caliphate of Abu Bakr, then he said: and the caliphate of Umar and the caliphate of Uthman, then he said to me: Hold on to the caliphate of Ali." He said: "We found it to be thirty years." Narrated by Ahmad and deemed good by al-Arna'ut. Imam Ahmad narrated from Hudhayfah (may Allah be pleased with him) that he said: "Prophethood has gone, and the caliphate will be upon the methodology of prophethood." Al-Arna'ut authenticated it. From Abu Sa'id al-Khudri from the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) who said: "Whenever Allah sends a prophet or appoints a caliph, he has two groups: one group commands him to do good and encourages him to do so, and another group commands him to do evil and encourages him to do so. The one who is protected is the one whom Allah protects." Narrated by al-Bukhari.
