Chapter Three:
Characteristics and Foundations of Islamic Legislation:
Upon careful examination, we find that Islamic legislation possesses distinctive characteristics, foundations, and principles marked by stability, permanence, generality, comprehensiveness, and the integration of its values and principles, which work together to produce systems of life, along with its balanced collective inclination. The following characteristics have emerged and manifested:
Islamic legislation and the systems of Islam are characterized by their divine nature (divine in terms of their source, ﴾Follow what has been revealed to you from your Lord, and do not follow other than Him as allies. Little do you remember﴿ [al-A'raf 3], ﴾Say, "I only warn you by revelation." And the deaf do not hear the call when they are warned﴿ [al-Anbiya 45], and the divinity of the purpose, direction, and intent ﴾Say, "Indeed, my prayer, my rites of sacrifice, my living, and my dying are for Allah, Lord of the worlds"﴿ [al-An'am 162]). This leads to:
The validity of legislation is derived from a Wise, All-Knowing, Subtle, and Expert (Allah).
And it is free from contradictions, discrepancies, deficiencies, flaws, and absurdities, and it is impossible for errors to exist in it, which we find in human legislations.
In order to ensure that behavior leads to the cultivation of the earth through righteous deeds and not to corruption therein, the Sharia (Islamic law) has avoided whims and narrow, immediate interests, elevating humanity above the level of animalistic satisfaction of instincts and organic needs, while taking into account human dignity and intellect, achieving true benefit rather than mere conjecture, as a mercy to all people, based on a correct perspective of the universe, humanity, and life, founded on a proper solution to the great dilemma, grounded in reason and in harmony with human nature.
Objectivity is represented by being free from bias, desires, and inclinations towards whims and interests(323). It does not favor one person over another; people are equal like the teeth of a comb, with no superiority of an Arab over a non-Arab or of a white person over a black person except through piety. Women have rulings that suit their femininity, and men have rulings that suit their original creation, and both have rulings addressed to them that are not influenced by gender. Moreover, it is a Sharia (law) that is possible to implement and not imaginary(324)!
__________
(323) One of the remarkable examples of this in Islamic history is the fatwa (legal opinion) of Imam al-Awza'i to the Umayyad caliph regarding the prohibition of killing hostages, who were individuals taken by the Muslims from the Romans as a guarantee against the treachery of their people - and the common practice was to kill the hostages if their people betrayed them. When the Romans betrayed the caliph by killing the hostages, Imam al-Awza'i opposed him and declared that it is not permissible to kill them in Islamic law and its regulations, because Allah, Exalted is He, has prohibited holding anyone accountable for the wrongdoing of another, and it has been established that no bearer of burdens shall bear the burden of another. Therefore, if the Romans betray, their sin does not extend to the hostages we took from them. The caliph accepted this fatwa of Imam al-Awza'i.
Another remarkable example that history has echoed is the incident involving Muhammad ibn Amr ibn al-As, the conqueror of Egypt and its governor, when a Christian Copt outpaced him in a race. Muhammad ibn Amr struck him with a stick and said, "Will you outpace the son of the noblest?" When the Copt complained to Umar ibn al-Khattab, the Commander of the Faithful, in Medina, he summoned Muhammad and his father Amr from Egypt after verifying the occurrence of the incident. He said to Muhammad: "When did you enslave people while their mothers bore them free?" Then he ordered the Christian Copt to strike Muhammad ibn Amr in the assembly and also commanded him to strike his father Amr, the governor of Egypt. When the Copt refused to strike him, he said: "You are only being struck by the authority of your father." See: Professor Mustafa al-Zarqa, The Characteristics of Islamic Legislation.
(324) For example, you find that democracy claims to promote pluralism, but in reality, it is not pluralism for non-secular political parties, nor is it pluralism that allows non-secular sources to enter into legislation and laws. Rather, it is individual pluralism that confines the cultural boundaries of others to their temples, kitchens, and folkloric dances. It is a false pluralism that is not applicable because if it were implemented and allowed political parties to include Islamic and socialist ones, for instance, if each of those parties won an electoral cycle, it would change the constitution and laws of the state and alter economic policies to derive them from its principles and its legislation!
