The Islamic Sharia in the view of some legal jurists and Western thinkers:
The judge Dr. Muhammad Wafiq Zayn al-Abidin says: "The rulings that the Islamic Sharia brought, whether directly from the Qur'an and the Sunnah or derived from them by using the principles of jurisprudence (usul al-fiqh) and its general and particular rules and standards that the Muslim jurists deduced, and in which they strove with the utmost effort, and on the principles of litigation, rulings and claims they wrote works that all other nations were unable to produce the like of; indeed, they were the first to establish the foundations of the legal theories that contemporary jurists take pride in establishing and mentioning in their books. Their standing became so great that they were a reference for Europeans in matters of rights and legal dilemmas, to which they would turn whenever the need arose, finding among the Muslims the final word on what concerned them and occupied their minds in this field. The learned professor Ali Haydar, may Allah have mercy on him, Minister of Justice in the Ottoman state, professor at the Faculty of Law in Istanbul, president of the Court of Cassation and Secretary of Fatwas, tells us of this and says: (This House of Fatwa was consulted in some cases by the states of Europe on some obscure legal questions)(333)."
Contemporary world jurists and philosophers of law have noticed the "inimitability" of Islamic legislation, so their writings are full of their amazement, and they could not help declaring at their conferences the superiority of the Sharia in the field of legislation, and acknowledging that it is the way to humanity's wretched deliverance from the afflictions of man-made law and its unjust consequences. Professor Bernard Shaw(334), the well-known English philosopher and novelist (1856–1950 CE), says: (There is no social system I know among the religions as sound as the system based on Islamic laws and teachings. Islam is the only religion that seems to me to have a tremendous capacity to suit the changing aspects of life, and it is valid for all ages.) And he says: (The British Empire must embrace the Islamic systems before the end of this century, and if Muhammad were sent in this age and given control of this modern world, he would succeed completely in solving all the world's problems and lead the world to happiness and peace.)(335)
The English orientalist Professor Noel J. Coulson, professor of Islamic law at the University of London, says: (The Sharia may rightly be regarded as a developed legal system, and this kind of divine law is distinguished, when compared with laws based on human reason, by two basic characteristics:
First: that it is a fixed system that does not change, and therefore its standards are absolutely fixed, and no legal authority has the right to change them.
__________
(333) Durar al-Hukkam, Sharh Majallat al-Ahkam (4/566).
(334) The meeting with George Bernard Shaw took place between 10 and 20 April 1935 in Mombasa, and was published in the January 1936 issue of a body called the Malay Mission Society for All Muslims (relating to Malaysia), part of what he said being, in English:
[A] I have always held the religion of Muhammad in high estimation because of its wonderful vitality. It is the only religion which appears to me to possess that assimilating capacity to the changing phase of existence which can make itself appeal to every age. I have studied him – the wonderful man and in my opinion far from being an anti-Christ, he must be called the Saviour of Humanity. I believe that if a man like him were to assume the dictatorship of the modern world, he would succeed in solving its problems in a way that would bring it the much needed peace and happiness: I have prophesied about the faith of Muhammad that it would be acceptable to the Europe of tomorrow as it is beginning to be acceptable to the Europe of today.
(335) Hikmat al-Tashri' wa Falsafatuh (1/26).
