The last of them is that the revealed Islamic Sharia represents the unified character of all Islamic peoples, while differences will be the inevitable result of laws derived from human reason influenced by specific local circumstances and expressed in the needs of a particular society(336).
The English scholar Rom Landau, a professor of Islamic studies at the American Academy of Asian Studies and other American universities (1899 - 1974), says in his book Islam and the Arabs: "In reality, the collection of laws that arose from the system and organization brought about by Islam has no counterpart in Western laws that emerged from established patterns of behavior. This is because the law in Islam was established - from the very beginning - directly based on the divine revelation received by Muhammad, and thus it did not need to be coupled with the approval of the community. Due to its divine nature - and thus infallible - the Qur'an enacted laws that are free from error, imposing on believers the obligation to act according to them, not as a social duty - as is the case in the West - but as part of faith in Allah."(337)
The Austrian orientalist Alfred von Kremer - the former consul of Austria in Egypt and Beirut (1889 - 1928) - speaks about the merits and characteristics of Islamic jurisprudence from a legal perspective: "Islamic jurisprudence is the greatest legal work in the history of the world, surpassing Roman law and the law of Hammurabi; due to the divine wisdom contained within it and its immense logical structure. However, jurisprudence did not record the Sharia in specific legal texts to avoid stagnation and the need for change, but rather maintained general principles and rulings; therefore, it is suitable for all humanity in every time and place."
Professor Philip Kettani - a professor at Harvard and Princeton universities in the United States (1886 - 1978) - states in his book Islam: A Way of Life: "The abrogation of the laws of Muhammad over the previous laws is due to the fact that his law is the last and most complete in responding to the needs of humanity, which have increased over time and with the spiritual maturity of humans. One of the reasons for this is also that the Jews and Christians - as mentioned in the Qur'an - have altered the revelation that was sent down to them in their law, and Allah has spoken through Muhammad His definitive word to humanity, and there cannot be another word that is more definitive or better in meaning."(338)
The famous French thinker Alphonse Étienne René (1861 - 1929) states in his book Muhammad the Messenger of Allah about the suitability of the Sharia for all times and places, regardless of the level of civilization and advancement: "Islam has affirmed from the very first moment of its emergence that it is a religion suitable for all times and places, as it is the religion of innate nature, and innate nature does not differ from one human to another, and for this reason, it is suitable for every level of civilization."
Indeed, the scientific characteristics of Islamic legislation only emerge where humanity advances in civilization and the degree of its sophistication rises, and we find in the rich jurisprudential heritage of Muslims and the emergence of dozens of jurisprudential schools in Islamic history when the territory expanded.
__________
(336) In the History of Islamic Legislation (28 - 29).
(337) Islam and the Arabs, Rom Landau (187).
(338) Islam: A Way of Life, Philip Kettani (23 - 24).
