Researchers highlight the merits of Sharia and its miraculous aspects, yet they will not do it justice and will only comprehend a small, insignificant portion of its positives and virtues(344).
The great jurist "Fombri" states: "(Islamic jurisprudence is so vast that I am amazed every time I think that you have not derived from it the systems and rulings that correspond to your time and your countries).
And "Edmund Burke" says: "The Muhammadan law is a law that governs everyone from the king to the least of his subjects, and this law is woven with the most robust legal system, and the Sharia of Islam is the greatest just legislation that the world has never before created a system like it, nor will it ever be able to do so in the future."
The European Renaissance, France derives 90 percent of its legislation from Islamic jurisprudence:
At first glance, one might think that the laws of the West, especially the French ones, were an inevitable product of the development witnessed by the West in the eighteenth century; however, the reality is quite the opposite, as most of these laws are derived from Islamic jurisprudence, as attested by the Westerners themselves.
The French historian Gustave Le Bon states in his book "The Civilization of the Arabs" that the most famous French general, Napoleon Bonaparte, upon his return to his country France from Egypt in 1801, took with him a legal book from the Maliki school of thought called "Sharh al-Dardir 'ala Matan Khalil," and the Maliki jurisprudence is considered the first Islamic jurisprudence that accompanied the Europeans. This legal book that Bonaparte took with him, Le Bon says, was the foundation upon which French law was built, which was one of the most important reasons for the revival of the state, especially in the areas of rulings, contracts, and obligations, thus the Islamic jurisprudence, especially the Maliki, had a significant impact on French legislation, particularly the civil code known as the Napoleonic Code.
Some results from studies and comparisons conducted by Muslim scholars and legal men, including: Makhlouf al-Minyaawi, a judge during the reign of Khedive Ismail in Egypt, who compared French law with Maliki jurisprudence, and Qudri Pasha, the Egyptian Minister of Justice in the late nineteenth century, and the Azhar scholar Sayyid Abdullah Ali Hussein, who conducted legislative comparisons, indicate that the similarity between Maliki jurisprudence and French law reached 90%.
Meanwhile, Professor of International Law at the Dutch University, Michel de Tobb, points to the influence of the human and moral spirit brought by Islam, which manifested in its jurisprudential philosophy and its preference over Europe in the medieval era, reminding us of the misery and unhappiness humanity was suffering from, and the impact of Islamic legislative rules on that, and its effect on international law.
Some historical sources state that Alfonso IX, King of Castile, wrote the first legal code in Europe, published with Latin commentaries in three volumes, which he derived especially from the law of the provinces in Muslim Andalusia dating back to the year 679 AH, corresponding to the year 1289 CE. In addition, Frederick II, King of Sicily and Emperor of Germania, derived his laws in the year 1250 CE from Islamic jurisprudence, including his establishment of direct and indirect taxes, and the structures.
__________
(344) Islamic legislation by the pens of Western jurists and thinkers, Dr. Muhammad Wafiq Zain al-Abidin, Al-Bayan Magazine, Issue 324.
