Social solidarity as an example of the comprehensiveness and integration of rulings for building a sound societal system
When we look at the set of laws regulating societal relations, we must find integration within them, and the societal dimension must be evident. For example, in Islam, there are laws and legislations that lead to the realization of a system of social solidarity. "Social solidarity in Islam represents an advanced idea that transcends mere cooperation among people or providing assistance during times of weakness and need. Its foundation is not the social need that imposes itself at a certain time or place, but rather social solidarity in Islam derives its foundation from a principle established in the Sharia, which is the principle of mutual guardianship among believers in the community. Allah, Exalted is He, says: ﴾And the believing men and believing women are allies of one another﴿ [al-Tawbah 71]. In the Islamic perspective, a person does not live independently, isolated from others, but rather exchanges guardianship with other members of the community, which entails supervision, support, solidarity, assistance, and help in matters of life and community."(346)
"Social solidarity also includes the principle of individual and collective responsibility in Islam. Islam has made it obligatory for Muslims to be responsible for others, even in thinking about livelihood, because thinking about livelihood shapes life for the individual, the family, the community, and humanity as a whole. It is built on a perspective on life; therefore, you find that the capitalist principle lacks responsibility for others. Among the manifestations of responsibility for others in Islam is that a Muslim must honor his guest. The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: 'Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him not harm his neighbor (let him honor his neighbor), and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him honor his guest, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him speak good or remain silent.'”(347) Narrated by al-Bukhari and Muslim. Islam has commanded him to embody altruism over selfishness, as Allah, Exalted is He, says: ﴾And those who settled in the abode and [in faith] before them love those who emigrated to them and find not in their breasts any need of what they have been given, but give [them] preference over themselves, even though they are in privation. And whoever is protected from the stinginess of his soul - it is those who will be the successful﴿ [al-Hashr 9]. When a Muslim and his children are satisfied, he must also satisfy the hunger of his neighbor. The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: 'He does not believe in me who goes to bed full while his neighbor beside him is hungry and he knows about it.'”(348) And when he feels secure, he must aid those who are afraid, as the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: 'If you must act, then guide the way, return the greeting, and aid the oppressed.'”(349) And when a Muslim is concerned about his own affairs, Islam has commanded him to be concerned about the affairs of Muslims. In the two Sahihs, from the hadith of Jareer ibn Abdullah (may Allah be pleased with him), he said: 'I pledged allegiance to the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) to establish prayer, give zakat, and advise every Muslim.'”(350) In Sahih Muslim, from the hadith of Abu Ruqayyah Tamim al-Dari (may Allah be pleased with him), the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: 'Religion is sincerity. We said: To whom? He said: To Allah, and to His Book, and to His Messenger, and to the leaders of the Muslims and their common folk.'”(351) Islam has not left anyone among its adherents without assigning them responsibility as long as they are of sound mind and mature. Al-Bukhari (may Allah have mercy on him) narrated: Abdullah ibn Umar used to say: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him)
__________
(346) Islam and social solidarity, Dr. Badr Abdul Hamid Hameesa.
(347) Sahih al-Bukhari, Book of Manners, Chapter on whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not harm his neighbor.
(348) Narrated by al-Tabarani in al-Kabir from Anas ibn Malik (may Allah be pleased with him) who said: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) said: 'He does not believe in me who goes to bed full while his neighbor beside him is hungry and he knows about it.' And narrated by al-Hakim in al-Mustadrak from Ibn Abbas who said: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) said: 'The believer is not the one who eats his fill while his neighbor beside him is hungry.' And al-Dhahabi authenticated it in al-Talkhis.
(349) Narrated by Ahmad.
(350) Narrated by al-Bukhari in hadiths: 57, 524, 1401, and others, and by Muslim 97/56 in the Book of Faith.
(351) Narrated by Muslim in the Book of Faith, number 95/55.
