The pastoral nature of Islam, versus: the extractive nature of capitalism
Islam is distinguished from other principles and religions by its obligation on its adherents to be responsible for others, that is, for everything over which the Sharia has granted them authority. This is manifested in a set of commands and prohibitions that are linked to achieving the meaning of true faith, seeking the pleasure of Allah, Exalted is He, and fearing His punishment. Among these is the saying of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him): "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should honor his guest," and he encouraged Muslims to prefer others over themselves even if they are in need. Allah, Exalted is He, said ﴾And they give preference to others over themselves, even though they are in need﴿. When a Muslim satisfies the hunger of his children and family, he is required to consider the hungry among his neighbors. The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "He does not believe in me who goes to bed full while his neighbor is hungry and he knows about it." When a Muslim enjoys safety and security and knows of someone in fear who is calling for help, he must assist him. Allah, Exalted is He, said ﴾And the believing men and women are allies of one another. They enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong, and establish prayer and give zakat, and obey Allah and His Messenger. Those are the ones whom Allah will have mercy upon. Indeed, Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise﴿. The term "alliance" refers to support, authority, and taking care of affairs. Believers take care of each other's affairs and support one another. This is a general principle that resembles the principle of responsibility in its comprehensiveness regarding the relationships among believers. Therefore, a believer does not give charity to another believer merely as an act of kindness, but as a matter of the right of alliance that Allah has imposed on believers towards one another, which is based on the responsibility of caring for and attending to affairs. The Muslim is commanded to care for the affairs of Muslims and is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining the cohesion of the community and the supremacy of Islamic norms within it. Al-Bukhari narrated in his Sahih from the hadith of al-Nu'man ibn Bashir: "The example of the one who upholds the limits of Allah and the one who violates them is like a group of people who drew lots for a ship. Some of them were in the upper part and some in the lower part. Those in the lower part, when they wanted to get water, had to pass by those above them. They said: 'If we make a hole in our share and do not harm those above us, we will not be harmed.' If they leave them and what they wanted, they will all perish, but if they take hold of their hands, they will be saved, and they will all be saved." And Allah, Exalted is He, said ﴾Indeed, the believers are but brothers﴿. And the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "The example of the believers in their mutual love, mercy, and compassion is like that of a body; when one part of it complains, the rest of the body responds with wakefulness and fever." Narrated by al-Bukhari and Muslim. The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) also said: "The believer to the believer is like a building whose parts support one another," and he interlaced his fingers. He also said: "None of you truly believes until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself." He said: "The blood of the believers is equal, and their lowest among them can seek protection for them, and they are one hand against others." Muslims are tasked with bearing responsibility for others. The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Whoever has an excess of mount, let him lend it to one who has no mount, and whoever has an excess of food, let him lend it to one who has no food." Narrated by Muslim and Ahmad. Al-Bukhari narrated that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say: "I heard the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) say: 'Each of you is a shepherd, and each of you is responsible for his flock. The leader is a shepherd and responsible for his flock, and a man is a shepherd in his family and is responsible for his flock, and a woman is a shepherd in her husband's house and is responsible for her flock, and a servant is a shepherd in the property of his master and is responsible for his flock.' He said: 'And I thought he said: And a man is a shepherd in the property of his father and is responsible for his flock. Each of you is a shepherd and responsible for his flock.'" And his saying (peace and blessings be upon him): "and he" indicates specificity(372), meaning that he is personally accountable for fulfilling that responsibility and is tasked with caring for it and performing it in the best manner. Thus, the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him)
__________
(372) Al-Suyuti, may Allah have mercy on him, says in Al-Itqan fi Ulum al-Quran: The fifty-fifth type in restriction and specificity: As for restriction, it is the specification of one matter by another in a specific way, ... etc. There are many categories of restriction under which his saying (peace and blessings be upon him): "and he is responsible for his flock" falls.
