By the easier option, he accepted the jizyah from them, and it is possible that he means that his community of believers was not given the choice between adhering to strictness in worship and fulfilling what is obligatory upon them except that he chose for them the easier of the two, out of compassion for them and in consideration of their situation, fearing that if the more difficult option were imposed upon them, they might be unable to fulfill it.
And His saying "as long as it is not a sin" indicates that if the one giving the choice is Allah, then it is an exception that is disconnected, because the Creator, Exalted is He, does not give a choice between sin and obedience. If the one giving the choice is the disbelievers and hypocrites to whom he was sent, then it would be a connected exception, meaning that the easier of the two options he was given is a sin, and he would be the farthest from it and would not choose it. Rather, he would choose the easier option if given a choice between two permissible options. If the one giving the choice is the believers from his community, then it seems that it is a disconnected exception, because they also do not give him a choice between adhering to an act of obedience and adhering to an act of disobedience. It is possible, albeit unlikely, that it is a connected exception in the sense that they give him a choice between adhering to what is permissible and adhering to what is not permissible, and they believe it to be permissible, so he would be the farthest from allowing them what is not permissible; rather, he would clarify to them the prohibition against it and warn them from committing it, guiding them instead to what is permissible, even if that is difficult for them.
Ibn Hajar said in al-Fath: "(between two matters): meaning from the affairs of this world, as indicated by his saying 'as long as it is not a sin,' because there is no sin in matters of religion. And his saying 'as long as it is not a sin' means that if the easier option entails sin, then he would choose the more difficult."
And he said in Awn al-Mabud on the explanation of Sunan Abi Dawood: "The judge said: It is possible that his choosing (peace and blessings be upon him) here is from Allah, Exalted is He, giving him a choice between two punishments or between him and the disbelievers in fighting and taking the jizyah, or regarding his community in striving in worship or moderation, and he would choose the easier in all of this; and as for the saying 'as long as it is not a sin,' it is conceivable if the disbelievers and hypocrites gave him a choice. But if the choice is from Allah, Exalted is He, or from the Muslims, then the exception would be disconnected, as stated in the explanation of Muslim by al-Nawawi."
As you can see, the matter is related to legislation, the time of legislation, for the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) chooses the easier if given a choice between two matters. If his choice is made, the legal ruling is established and remains as he chose in that incident until the Day of Resurrection. This is the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) who was given a choice in some matters and chose, and he was not given a choice in others. So how can a mufti place himself in a position where he chooses in every matter of the Sharia, making the principle of ease a general rule that encompasses every legal ruling, when it was only for the Messenger of Allah, may my father and mother be sacrificed for him, in some rulings before they were legislated? Once they are legislated, adherence to them is required without deviation. It is known that legislation has been completed, and thus the legal ruling is established. Whoever deviates from it to the ruling of desire, reason, and interest has failed and lost.
As for what may be conceived as easing for the people by allowing them a certain understanding as long as the text accommodates it, this is also a ruling based on desire, because it is true that the text accommodates understanding. For example, the text may imply that touching breaks the wudu and it may imply that it does not break it; otherwise, there would not be disagreement. However, the jurist must weigh the more likely understanding of the text regardless of the reality, and irrespective of strictness and ease, and then apply the ruling to the reality.
As for his saying (peace and blessings be upon him), "Give good tidings and do not drive people away," it was said in Awn al-Mabud: "(Give good tidings) means inform the people of Allah's acceptance of good deeds and His reward for them, and His granting them success in repenting from sins and His pardon and forgiveness. (And do not drive people away): with the emphasis on the broken 'fa,' meaning do not frighten them by exaggerating in warning them until you make them despair of Allah's mercy due to their sins and burdens. (And make things easy): meaning facilitate matters for them in taking zakat gently. (And do not make things difficult): meaning do not make it hard for them by taking more than what is due from them or better than it, or by pursuing their faults and spying on their situations."
