The editor-in-chief of Time magazine advises in his book "The Asia Book" that the American government "should establish military dictatorships in Islamic countries to prevent Islam from regaining control over the Islamic nation, and thus triumphing over the West and its civilization and colonization"(45).
But they do not forget to give these peoples breaks so that they do not explode.
Hanouto, a former French foreign minister, states: "The danger still exists in the ideas of the oppressed who have been exhausted by the calamities we have inflicted upon them, but these calamities have not deterred their resolve"(46).
"Western countries are openly intervening in the affairs of Arabs and Muslims and imposing political orientations on our world, permitting what serves their interests and prohibiting what contradicts their goals and plans, thus forcing us to align with them in their wars against (their adversaries), even if they are, like us, Arabs and Muslims. Examples of this include Iraq, Palestine, Afghanistan, Kashmir, etc. Among the methods of intervention are demands to change and amend educational curricula to include only a few moral and devotional values, and intervention also occurs through claims of concern for the rights of religious minorities (such as the claim of persecution of Copts in Egypt)"(47).
Fifth: The destruction of the morals of Muslims, their minds, their connection to Allah, and the unleashing of their desires:
Marmaduke Pickthall states: "Muslims can spread their civilization in the world now at the same speed they did previously, provided they return to the morals they had when they played their initial role, for this empty world cannot withstand the spirit of their civilization"(48).
The orientalist Jab states: "Islam has lost its control over the social lives of Muslims, and its sphere of influence has gradually narrowed until it has become confined to specific rituals. Most of this development has occurred gradually and unconsciously, and this development has now progressed far, making it impossible to revert. However, the success of this development largely depends on the leaders and figures in the Islamic world, especially the youth among them. All of this has been a result of secular educational and cultural activity"(49).
Sixth: The elimination of Muslim unity and the prevention of its causes:
This is done by spreading nationalist and patriotic ideas and fragmenting Muslims into fifty-some small states, and then by stirring sectarian, doctrinal, and factional strife and fabricating minority issues.
__________
(45) Jund Allah - p. 29.
(46) Islamic Thought and Its Connection to Western Colonialism by Dr. Muhammad al-Bahi - p. 19.
(47) Ten Reasons for Hostility with the West, Is it True That: East is East and West is West and They Will Never Meet? Ziad Ahmad Salama.
(48) Jund Allah - p. 22, and the book: Why All This Fear of Islam by Jawdat Said p. 45.
(49) National Trends in Contemporary Literature - vol. 2 - pp. 204-206, authored by Dr. Muhammad Muhammad Hussein.
