(And for discipline, there are defined limits that should not be exceeded, and it should not, in any case, go beyond what a master uses to discipline his children.) This is a legal justification for the emancipation of slaves, and Abu Huraira supports this by saying to a man who was riding with his slave running behind him: "Carry him behind you, for he is your brother, and his soul is like your soul." The Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) used to establish brotherhood between some of the freedmen and some of the free men among the nobles of Quraysh: he established brotherhood between Bilal ibn Rabah and Abu Ruwayh Abdullah ibn Abdul Rahman al-Khath'ami, and between Zaid ibn Haritha and his uncle Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib, and between Khawlah ibn Zaid and Abu Bakr al-Siddiq ... May Allah be pleased with them all. He even married his cousin "Zainab bint Jahsh" to his freedman "Zaid ibn Haritha," and he sent his freedman "Zaid" at the head of an army that included the Ansar and the Muhajirun from the nobles of Quraysh to fight the Romans in the Battle of Mu'tah, and he appointed his son "Usama ibn Zaid" as the commander of the army, who was under the command of Abu Bakr and Umar, the ministers of the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) and his successors after him. Thus, the freedman was not only granted mere human equality, but he was even given leadership and authority over the free men, and he advised in this regard to say - peace be upon him -: "Listen and obey, even if a slave from Abyssinia is appointed over you, whose head is like a raisin, as long as he establishes among you the Book of Allah, Exalted is He."(395)
__________
(395) The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Listen and obey, even if a slave from Abyssinia is appointed over you, whose head is like a raisin." How do we reconcile this hadith with the condition that the caliph must be free? One of the conditions for the caliph or imam is that he must be free; thus, the imamate of a owned slave is invalid because he lacks freedom, and since a slave cannot manage his own affairs, he cannot manage the affairs of others. If he is freed from slavery, there is no longer any impediment preventing him from becoming an imam or caliph, as occurred in the Mamluk state when they seized power in Egypt while they were slaves who had not been freed. Al-Izz ibn Abd al-Salam - may Allah have mercy on him - who was one of the scholars of the Shafi'i school, stood firm on this point and clarified that these individuals do not have the right to govern or lead. They accepted to be sold in the market while they were kings, and then later they were freed, and only then did their authority become established; hence, he was nicknamed "the seller of kings." There is some scrutiny in this story; it is most likely not accurate, as it is known that Najm al-Din Ayyub used to import slaves and then prepare them for the army, and upon reaching a certain level of training, he would free them, and they would rise in the army, among whom were leaders like Qutuz and Baybars. It may be more accurate to say that Al-Izz ibn Abd al-Salam refrained from allowing the Mamluks to collect taxes from the people (for jihad) until they paid from their own funds, rather than that he sold them as slaves, because the righteous had already freed them. In any case, the issue may be resolved by considering the term "slave" here as a metaphorical expression regarding what was, meaning he was a slave and then was freed. In the interpretation of the hadith: it is said that the intended meaning is that the greatest imam, if he appoints the Abyssinian slave over the governance of a city, for example, his obedience is obligatory, and it does not imply that the Abyssinian slave is the greatest imam. Al-Khattabi said: An example may be given of something that does not exist in reality, meaning this is from that; the Abyssinian slave is mentioned as an exaggeration in the command of obedience, even if it is not conceivable in Sharia that he would hold that position. (Fath al-Bari (13/131)), and Al-Nawawi said: The hadith does not state that he would be an imam, but rather it is applicable to someone to whom the imam delegates a matter or the collection of a right or something similar. (Sharh al-Nawawi on Sahih Muslim 5/149). I believe that the issue is not entirely resolved here, as the governance of a city requires the ability to manage affairs, and one who lacks the freedom to manage his own affairs cannot manage the affairs of others. It is more likely that he was appointed for the collection of alms, for example, or for a task that does not involve management of affairs, or that the description is in the sense of servitude to Allah. It was said in Lisan al-Arab: A slave is a human being, whether free or enslaved, and this implies that he is a servant to his Creator, Exalted and Glorious. ... It was said: And in the hadith of Abu Huraira: "Let none of you say to his slave, 'My slave' or 'My maid,' but let him say, 'My young man' or 'My young woman.'" This is to negate arrogance towards them and to avoid attributing their servitude to oneself, for the one deserving of that is Allah, Exalted is He, who is the Lord of all servants and slaves, and He made some of them servants to Allah, and others as creations for Allah and the created beings. Thus, the noble Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) forbids describing the owned slaves as "slaves," and this is an indication that since he prohibited people from this description, it is even more so that he would not use it himself in this sense (peace and blessings be upon him). Therefore, his description in the hadith as a slave means that he is a servant of Allah, Exalted is He, not that he is owned. Islam honored him and made him worthy of the highest imamate, and thus the issue is resolved. As for his description (peace and blessings be upon him) of him as having a head like a raisin, it indicates that the intended meaning is the color of his skin, not that he is an owned slave. The necks of the Arabs, who used to disdain mingling with people like him in the pre-Islamic era, would bow to him. Islam's view of people has never been based on skin color, so it is not to be thought that describing skin color is a diminishment, as human civilization has often stigmatized people with dark skin compared to the white Western man! For the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "O people, indeed Allah has removed from you the arrogance of ignorance and its pride in your ancestors. People are of two types: a righteous, pious man who is esteemed by Allah, and a sinful, wretched man who is insignificant to Allah. And people are the children of Adam, and Allah created Adam from dust. Allah said: ﴾O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted.﴿" Authentic. And he (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "O people, indeed your Lord is One, and your father is one. There is no superiority of an Arab over a non-Arab, nor of a non-Arab over an Arab, nor of a red-skinned person over a black-skinned person, nor of a black-skinned person over a red-skinned person, except by piety. Have I conveyed the message?"
