the rulings regarding slavery were distinct from slavery itself, and he elaborated on the matter in the context of war. He clarified that for the bankrupt debtor, the creditor should wait until ease comes, as Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And if the debtor is in difficulty, then [let there be] a postponement until [he is] in ease﴿. He detailed the punishments for sins, particularly the punishment for theft, which was slavery, as indicated by Allah in the Qur'an: ﴾They said, "Its penalty is that whoever is found in his possession, he is its penalty"﴿. Islam specified its punishment – that is, for theft – to be the cutting off of the hand, as Allah said: ﴾As for the thief, the male and the female, amputate their hands in recompense for what they earned﴿. He established that the contract between the slave and the master is for emancipation, not for slavery. He categorically prohibited the enslavement of free people, as he (peace and blessings be upon him) said: “Allah, the Exalted, said: 'There are three whom I will be an adversary to on the Day of Resurrection: a man who gave a pledge to me and then betrayed it, a man who sold a free person and consumed his price, and a man who hired a laborer and took full work from him but did not pay him his wages.'” Narrated by al-Bukhari, thus Allah, the Exalted, is an adversary to the seller of a free person.
In this way, Islam has dried up the sources of slavery and prohibited the enslavement of captives altogether. In the second year of Hijra, the ruling regarding captives was clarified: they could either be released without compensation or ransomed with money or with captives of equal status from Muslims or dhimmis. Thus, the enslavement of captives was prohibited. Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾So strike the necks until when you have inflicted slaughter, then secure the bonds. Either [grant] favor afterwards or ransom﴿. The verse is explicit in this meaning: favor or ransom, and it does not allow for anything else whatsoever.
As for women and children, if they did not accompany the army to the battlefield to incite the fighting infidel army against the Muslims, they should not be touched, neither through enslavement nor through capture. However, if they accompanied the army, then capturing them is permissible, as they came to attack the sanctity of Islam or supported those who stood with armed force to obstruct divine guidance from the hearts of people. They came with aggressors who intended to kill Muslims, so the combatants become captives, subject to the rulings of captives. As for those who supported them from among the women, their enslavement is permissible, and they should be treated with the honorable treatment we described for slaves. Now that it has become invalid for people to send children and women with armies to incite them, there remains no case whatsoever in which enslavement occurs. Thus, Islam has prohibited enslavement.
One final question remains: why did the problem of slavery not end until several centuries later? The answer is that Islam succeeded remarkably in changing society's view of slaves, in liberating them, and in placing them in a lofty status. For example, in the first two hundred years of the application of Islam, a large group of the greatest scholars of Islam, to whom their communities turned for knowledge, jurisprudence, and religion, were from the mawali (freed slaves), or they sought refuge with some tribes and thus belonged to them. Among these were: Ata ibn Abi Rabah, the master of scholars in Mecca, who excelled the people of Mecca in religion and narration; Tawus ibn Kaysan, who excelled the people of Yemen as Ata excelled the people of Mecca; Yazid ibn Abi Habib, who excelled the people of Egypt; Makhlud, who excelled the people of the Levant, and who was previously a Nubian slave freed by a woman from Hudhayl; and Maimun ibn Mehran, who excelled the people of the island. Al-Dhahhak ibn Muzahim excelled the people of Khurasan, and al-Hasan al-Basri excelled the people of Basra, all of whom were mawali. Ibrahim al-Nakha'i excelled the people of Kufa, but he was not from the mawali.
Despite this tremendous status of the mawali, those who apply Islam in reality are human beings, and the proper application of Islam depends on their good understanding of it and their commitment to its rulings. Thus, there was some shortcoming on their part regarding the emancipation of slaves, especially since the Umayyad state was preoccupied for a long time with the wars against the Khawarij and with the expansion of conquests, and it did not pay attention to the problem of slavery as the state of Prophethood did.
