The second column: The concept of piety (taqwa) and the concept of excellence (ihsan):
Piety is the command of Allah, Exalted and Glorious, to humanity in His Books: ﴾And We have enjoined those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah﴿ [al-Nisa 131]. The Qur'an has emphasized the utmost effort in attaining and embodying it in the best possible manner befitting the greatness of the Creator, Exalted is He: ﴾O you who have believed, fear Allah as He should be feared﴿ [Al-Imran 102] ﴾So fear Allah as much as you are able﴿ [al-Taghabun 16]. Islam has established the concept of piety on three pillars, the first of which is the feeling of complete and constant surveillance from Allah, and what accompanies this awareness of awe, fear, vigilance, and companionship, which makes the Muslim's actions serve as a protection from the wrath of Allah and a caution against His punishment, exerting every effort to attain that protection in the best way to achieve the image of piety that Allah truly deserves from the pious, to the utmost of the Muslim's ability and capacity, as he is aware of Allah's companionship. This leads to the second pillar, which is the excellence and perfection of actions, in terms of adhering to the Sunnah in them, performing obedience to Allah in the best manner possible. "Piety is to act in obedience to Allah with light from Allah, hoping for Allah's mercy, and piety is to abandon the disobedience of Allah with light from Allah, fearing Allah's punishment," as said by Talq ibn Habib. Thus, piety becomes a means of preserving and safeguarding oneself from sins, which is an important pillar that ensures adherence to the Sharia in a manner that pleases Allah, fulfilling His commands to the best of one's ability: "Excellence is to worship Allah as if you see Him; if you do not see Him, then indeed He sees you," narrated by al-Bukhari. In the authentic hadith: "Indeed, Allah has prescribed excellence in all things," so one perfects their work in a correct and pure manner, following the Sunnah in its essence, ﴾He who created death and life to test you as to which of you is best in deed; and He is the Exalted in Might, the Forgiving﴿ [al-Mulk 2]. "For the work to be good, it must be sincere in intention for Allah, and it must conform to the Sharia, derived from the Sharia. This is why the Imams of the Salaf, may Allah have mercy on them, used to combine these two principles, as stated by al-Fudayl ibn 'Iyad regarding the verse ﴾To test you which of you is best in deed﴿ [al-Mulk 2]: He said: 'It must be sincere and correct.' It was said: 'O Abu Ali, what is sincere and correct?' He said: 'If the action is correct but not sincere, it will not be accepted; and if it is sincere but not correct, it will not be accepted, until it is both sincere and correct. The sincere is that it is for Allah, and the correct is that it is according to the Sunnah'"(398). ﴾Indeed, Allah commands you to be just and to excel﴿ [al-Nahl 90], ﴾And do good; indeed, Allah loves the doers of good﴿ [al-Baqarah 195], ﴾Indeed, the mercy of Allah is near to the doers of good﴿ [al-A'raf 56]. So if he is afflicted by a whisper from the devil and commits a sin or wrongs himself, he remembers Allah, seeks forgiveness, and repents, and does not persist. This pillar is connected to the third, which is the readiness to meet Allah in the Hereafter with these perfected actions, adhering to the limits set by Allah, ﴾And fear Allah and know that you will meet Him, and give good tidings to the believers﴿ [al-Baqarah 223], ﴾O you who have believed, fear Allah and let every soul look to what it has brought forth for tomorrow. And fear Allah; indeed, Allah is All-Aware of what you do﴿ [al-Hashr 18].
The Qur'an has surrounded human life with good tidings that result from adhering to piety, making it the way out of every hardship and providing sustenance from where one does not expect, ﴾And whoever fears Allah, He will make for him a way out (2) And will provide for him from where he does not expect. And whoever relies upon Allah, He is sufficient for him. Indeed, Allah will accomplish His purpose; Allah has already set for everything a decreed extent﴿ [al-Talaq 3] ﴾And whoever fears Allah, He will make for him ease in his matter﴿ [al-Talaq 4]. He has made it a path to the love of Allah and His companionship: ﴾Indeed, Allah loves those who are conscious of Him﴿ [al-Ma'idah].
__________
(398) Drawing closer to Allah is the path to success, Fawzi Sanqurt.
