And they established prayer. Indeed, We do not waste the reward of the doers of good﴿ [Al-A'raf 170]. And a person should reject negative characters that are self-absorbed, for when the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) was asked, "Will we be destroyed while among us are the righteous?" he said, "Yes, if the wicked become many." It is not sufficient for a Muslim to be righteous himself, nor will this save him from the consequences of the corruption of the society around him.
"Based on the above, it can be said that responsibility before action looks to the present and the future; it is a responsibility of obligation and demand, while responsibility after action reflects on the past; it is a responsibility of inquiry and accountability for what has passed(401)." Dr. Daraz said: "Responsibility means that the individual is obligated to perform certain actions and to account for them to others. This definition implies that the concept of responsibility includes a dual relationship regarding the responsible individual and their actions, and their relationship with those who judge these actions..." Therefore, it is an obligation for the community to hold the ruler accountable for his proper fulfillment of his pastoral responsibilities towards them or for his shortcomings in this regard. Similarly, it is a right for everyone whom Islam has entrusted to fulfill their responsibilities, such as a wife holding her husband accountable. Likewise, Allah, Exalted is He, will hold people accountable for what He has tasked them with, ﴾So We will surely question those to whom [Our message] was sent, and We will surely question the messengers﴿ ﴾7:6﴿. "There is no servant whom Allah, the Mighty and Majestic, entrusts with a flock, and he dies on the day he dies while being negligent towards his flock, except that Allah has forbidden him paradise." In another narration, "If he does not take care of it with his advice, he will not smell the fragrance of paradise," narrated by al-Bukhari and Muslim. Note the expression: "If he does not take care of it with his advice," meaning that the matter is one of guardianship and trust that he cannot betray, and a tendency towards perfection. When Allah, Exalted is He, tasked people with protecting their families and themselves from the Fire, ﴾O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones, over which are [appointed] angels, harsh and severe; they do not disobey Allah in what He commands them and do what they are commanded﴿ ﴾66:6﴿, the reward and punishment are contingent upon their encompassing their flock with advice and care. This includes being good role models for their children, for which Allah rewards them, or betraying them and being negligent in that trust, which results in their sharing in the consequences of that negligence. Among the forms of betrayal is their silence about the sins they are capable of changing.
The topic of responsibility in Islam is a terrifying one! For example, the responsibility of scholars regarding clarification and the prohibition of concealment places upon them a tremendous burden of responsibility: ﴾Indeed, those who conceal what We sent down of clear proofs and guidance after We made it clear for the people in the Scripture, those are cursed by Allah and cursed by those who curse, except for those who repent, amend, and clarify. For them, I will accept repentance, and I am the Accepting of Repentance, the Merciful﴿ ﴾2:159-160﴿. This is due to the necessity of this clarification for people to act justly. The best of those who know the limits of Allah and His guidance to clarify it to the people are the scholars. If they fulfill the duty of clarification properly, people will act justly and fairly. If they choose concealment, they will face the curse of Allah and the curse of those who curse, unless they repent, and they cannot repent unless they clarify! The responsibility for the community is represented in the saying of the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him): "The example of the one who upholds the limits of Allah and the reality within them is like that of a people who drew lots for a ship. Some of them were above it and some of them were below it. Those who were below it, when they sought water, would pass by those above them, and they said: 'If we were to make a hole in our share and not harm those above us, then if they leave them and what they want, they will all perish, but if they take hold of their hands, they will be saved and all will be saved.'"(402) Thus, the neglect in fulfilling responsibilities towards the community results in tremendous consequences: ﴾And fear a trial which will not strike those who have wronged among you exclusively﴿ ﴾8:25﴿.
__________
(401) Responsibility and its regulations in Islam. Dr. Mustafa Rajab.
(402) Narrated by al-Bukhari 2493, Book of Partnership.
