about wrongdoing, and therefore the virtue of the scholar over the worshiper, as defined by the hadith narrated in the Sahih of Abu Dawood, is as follows: He (peace and blessings be upon him) said: “Whoever travels a path seeking knowledge, Allah will make easy for him a path to Paradise. And the angels lower their wings in satisfaction for the seeker of knowledge. And the scholar is sought forgiveness by those in the heavens and those on earth, and even the fish in the depths of the water. And the virtue of the scholar over the worshiper is like the virtue of the moon on the night of its fullness over all the stars. And indeed, the scholars are the heirs of the prophets, and the prophets did not leave behind dinars or dirhams; they left behind knowledge, so whoever takes it has taken a great share.” The forgiveness of the fish for the scholar, and the forgiveness of those in the heavens and the earth for the scholar, is not due to the whiteness of the scholars' teeth, nor to what their brains contain of knowledge, but rather for their divine stances. They are godly, but the wrath of the Most Merciful may intensify against them, and this depends on the scholar's divine stance on two extremely critical issues:
First: The scholar's stance towards rulers who consume the wealth of the nation unjustly and take bribes from the enemies of the nation, thus enabling the enemies to access the nation's wealth and its sons and daughters, and its resources, and giving the disbelievers a way over the believers, despite the severe prohibition of that. Moreover, the enemies of the nation consume the wealth and resources of the nation unjustly, and the more dangerous thing is that the price of the bribe is the ruling by other than what Allah has revealed!
So if you stand against them like a fierce lion, and forbid them from consuming the unlawful, and incite the public and the elite against them and instill fear in them, and you lead them, you are a godly scholar deserving of the forgiveness of the fish in the sea, and of those in the heavens and the earth.
Second: Your stance on the sinful words of the rulers, and I do not think any word that comes from the mouth of a ruler among today’s rulers is anything but a sin, no matter how you turn it or reflect on it! Therefore, it is not enough for you to learn the Qur'an and teach it to the people in order to be saved from the warning of Allah, for He has warned the godly scholars with a severe warning, in a strong tone, and He cautioned them with a great verse that Muslim scholars have said, “There is no verse in the Qur'an that reproaches scholars more than this verse, nor is there one that instills more fear in them.” Imagine that Allah described them in this verse as godly, and yet He reproached them and warned them! O gentle one! ﴾If only the godly and the scholars had forbidden them from their sinful words and their consuming of the unlawful! Evil is what they were producing﴿ [Al-Ma'idah 63]. Evil is your deed, O scholars, that you did not forbid the rulers from their consuming the unlawful and their sinful words, and this is a severe warning from the Lord of the worlds, Exalted is He, that awaits you. This verse was revealed about the scholars and godly ones of the Children of Israel who witnessed their rulers and judges being bribed by disputants to rule by other than what Allah has revealed, and the godly scholars did not forbid them from that ugly act which prevents the Sharia of Allah from ruling among the people with justice. The meaning of their consuming the unlawful (i.e., the bribe for ruling by other than what Allah has revealed) is exactly the price that the rulers of the Muslims today receive to remain on their thrones and to keep the nation's wealth plundered by its enemies, and the price for opening funding corridors for the entity of the Jews with what they need of food and equipment that cuts through the lands of the Muslims from east to west amid the aggression of the Jews against the people of Gaza, and the rulers of the Muslims enable them to do so without the godly scholars of the Muslims forbidding them from that ugly act. Allah warns those scholars who commit that ugly act with the severest types of warning, and this is only because what results from your stance, O scholars, is the misleading of an entire nation and its sedation and domestication for the rulers and the enemies of the nation. So evil is the deed of whoever among you does that, and give glad tidings to all rulers of the glad tidings of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him): From Abu Huraira (may Allah be pleased with him) from the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) who said: “There will come a time upon the people when a man will not care from where he takes, whether from the lawful or the unlawful.” And from Abu Bakr al-Siddiq, that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: “No body that has been nourished with the unlawful will enter Paradise.” And from Zayd ibn Arqam, from Abu Bakr al-Siddiq (may Allah be pleased with him), who said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) say: “Every...
