"Do not be divided; and remember the favor of Allah upon you when you were enemies, and He brought your hearts together, so by His favor you became brothers; and you were on the edge of a pit of fire, and He saved you from it. Thus Allah makes clear His signs to you that you may be guided." ﴾ آل عمران 103 ﴿, and He, Exalted is He, said: "Your ally is none but Allah and His Messenger and those who have believed—those who establish prayer and give zakah, and they bow [in worship]. And whoever is an ally of Allah and His Messenger and those who have believed—indeed, the party of Allah will be the victorious." ﴾ المائدة 55-56 ﴿. Al-Bukhari (13), Muslim (45), and al-Nasa'i (5017) - and the wording is his - narrated from Anas (may Allah be pleased with him) that the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "By the One in Whose hand is the soul of Muhammad, none of you truly believes until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself of good." Al-Tabarani narrated from the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him): "The strongest bonds of faith are loyalty for the sake of Allah, enmity for the sake of Allah, love for the sake of Allah, and hatred for the sake of Allah, the Exalted." The general allegiance among believing men and women is defined by the verse of repentance: "And the believers, men and women, are allies of one another. They enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong and establish prayer and give zakah and obey Allah and His Messenger. Those—Allah will have mercy upon them. Indeed, Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise." ﴾ التوبة 71 ﴿. From this verse, we find that the Wise Legislator has outlined various roles that a believing woman undertakes, alongside her role as a housewife, as a wife, as a sister, as a mother, and as a believer in public life. This is her role in the general allegiance among believing men and women. Among the pillars of this allegiance are: enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong, establishing prayer, giving zakah, obeying Allah and His Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him). The meaning of loyalty includes support, assistance, advice, love, solidarity, help, and bearing responsibilities towards them. Thus, no Muslim can thereafter shirk their duty towards the issues of Muslims, thinking that their obligation is limited to themselves and their families. Rather, they must extend their duty to the believing men and women and to the issues of the Ummah, to fulfill their role in it and perform the responsibilities entrusted to them regarding them. If this requires the gathering of Muslims and their organization so that they can fulfill those duties, then it is obligatory upon them, for what cannot be fulfilled except through it is an obligation. Therefore, the concept of loyalty among believing men and women is linked to the concept of function, duty, role, and the task assigned to each of them in their position according to their abilities—with an emphasis on the changing concept of ability when Muslims come together on a matter compared to their individual abilities. Their gathering in such circumstances becomes obligatory, and the issue of incapacity and inability is nullified—and it is closely related to the concepts of responsibilities and accountability! And Allah, the Exalted, knows best.
Professor Abd al-Salam Yasin (may Allah have mercy on him) said: "If faith is the root of allegiance among believers, then the ritual proof of it is establishing prayer in congregation in the mosque. 'When you see a man frequenting the mosques, bear witness to his faith.' This is a noble hadith narrated by al-Tirmidhi and graded as good. The practical proof is enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong, cooperating in righteousness, and coordinating efforts to establish the truth in place of falsehood, and the state of Islam in place of the state of fitna, and confronting the cunning of Satan and his followers with the cunning of Allah and His allies."(403)
__________
(403) Allegiance among believers, Majid Fuluh.
