The absolute provision of a "supportive political and economic climate for private investment" allows for the sufficient export of profits while protecting our "raw materials"! [Reflect: "our raw materials"](412) even if they are found in other countries! For these reasons, the implementing planner "George Kennan" advised to "stop talking about vague, unrealistic goals such as 'human rights, raising living standards, and democratization,' and to deal with concepts of direct power, without letting 'idealistic slogans' about 'loving goodness for others and helping the world' hinder us, even though such slogans are good, indeed necessary in 'public speeches.'"(413)
"Moreover, international treaties concerning human rights, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, issued by the United Nations in 1948, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, issued by the United Nations in 1966, did not explicitly stipulate the means necessary to guarantee human rights, but rather limited themselves to stating the necessity of preserving them. Despite the acknowledgment in the Universal Declaration and the International Covenant on Human Rights regarding the individual and his body, the freedom of thought, the prohibition of arbitrary detention, and the prohibition of torture or imprisonment without legal text, the international declaration 'did not specify... the international means to ensure that individuals enjoy their rights and freedoms as stipulated therein'(414). This renders human rights subject to subjective considerations, linked to the interests of the state or the interests of the rulers, without regard to the objective considerations related to the establishment of rights and duties.(415)" "And as a result of the above, the number of beneficiaries in practice, in reality, from the grandiose and lofty terms contained in these documents diminishes, and their advantages become restricted to a specific group of those in power, who exercise governance with oppressive dictatorship, suppressing the majority of the people, and eliminating their partners in governance one after another, so that rights are monopolized by the few(416)."
And when we return to examine the foundations of contract, conflict, and benefit, "the contract is based on the view of those thinkers that the human community has agreed that the benefit it will gain from an agreement with a ruler, in order to stop the existing state of conflict (as envisioned by both Hobbes and Locke), or the potential conflict that may arise (as outlined by the French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau), will be a benefit that justifies the reduction of the number of rights enjoyed by the individual. Furthermore, the contract involves the surrender of all rights by everyone, and thus the authority 'representing the general will' details and distributes the rights among them, ensuring the public good (as determined by this authority)!
The second foundation of establishing the idea of rights, which is conflict, can be represented in the discourse of both Hobbes and Locke regarding the origin of human nature, which they considered to be evil, leading them to a state of war of all against all. Rousseau opposed them in this when he envisioned that the original state of nature was a state of well-being; however, he emphasized that the fate of humanity
__________
(412) The new American liberals use the term "our raw materials" to talk about natural and unnatural resources wherever they may be found in the world; they are the Americans' raw materials! Even if they are found in Saudi Arabia, Latin America, or even on the surface of Mars!
(413) Profit over People, Neoliberalism and the Global Order by Noam Chomsky, pp. 25-28
(414) Dr. Edmond Rabat. The Mediator in General Constitutional Law, Volume 3, Beirut, Dar Al-Ilm Lil-Malayin 1965, page 116.
(415) Human Rights in Western Political Thought and Islamic Law (A Comparative Study), Dr. Muhammad Ahmad Mufti, and Dr. Sami Saleh Al-Wakeel.
(416) Dr. Muhammad Fathi Osman. From the Foundations of Islamic Political Thought. Beirut: Al-Risalah Foundation, 2nd edition, 1404 AH - 1984 CE, page 107.
