The first of them is through rational deliberation, and many verses have been revealed in the Noble Qur'an that pertain to thought and reason in various forms, words, and meanings, all of which explicitly and directly call upon the intellect to reflect and contemplate, and they include references to the derivatives of reason and its functions. Allah, Exalted is He, addresses the people of intellect in His glorious Book, saying: ﴾And if your Lord had willed, those who are on earth would have believed, all of them together. So will you compel mankind until they become believers? And it is not for a soul to believe except by permission of Allah. And He places defilement upon those who do not use reason.﴿ [Yunus 99-101]. Muslim thinkers and scholars have made significant contributions in directing minds to the importance of precise sensory observation for sound thinking. Islam is a religion of reason, thought, and reflection, and it does not restrict the intellect or thinking; rather, it encourages the possessor of intellect to think and contemplate. Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Thus Allah makes clear His verses to you that you may use reason.﴿ [Al-Baqarah 242]. From here, the usuliyyun (principlists) defined faith as "the firm belief that corresponds to reality based on evidence," making its foundation: firm belief, meaning: (a conclusive conviction that does not allow for doubt or uncertainty) (436). It is firm to the extent that there is no place for suspicion, doubt, illusion, or denial to enter into it, and what brings one to this degree is the evidence, meaning that it leads belief to knowledge.
The second is through submission to what has come in the transmission, provided that the transmission is supported by definitive evidence of authenticity and clear indication, and that its origin is established by reason.
The Qur'anic methodology is characterized by being:
Rational, convincing the intellect with complete conviction that leaves no room for the slightest doubt, filled with certainty and the strength of truth, and its arguments are compelling and decisive, with ease and clarity. Its discourse is distinguished by eloquent and articulate expression; Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Say, "Have you considered what you invoke besides Allah? Show me what they have created of the earth, or do they have a partnership in the heavens? Bring me a Book before this or a trace of knowledge, if you should be among the truthful."﴿ [Al-Ahqaf 4], or through compelling and decisive evidence: Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Or were they created from nothing? Or are they the creators? Or did they create the heavens and the earth? Rather, they are not certain.﴿ [At-Tur 35, 36] and Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾O mankind, a parable has been struck; so listen to it. Indeed, those whom you invoke besides Allah will never be able to create a fly, even if they gathered together for that purpose. And if the fly should steal from them a thing, they would not be able to recover it from it. Weak are the pursuer and the pursued.﴿ [Al-Hajj 73]. These are compelling arguments that remain throughout the ages!
It aligns with sound human nature and affects the hearts, meaning it resonates with human nature and affirms what is in its innate composition of inadequacy. By nature, a person feels incomplete and that there is a power greater than themselves, and this power deserves to be revered. They turn to it in times of distress and calamity, and religiosity is the need for the Creator and Sustainer. Therefore, humanity throughout all ages has been religious, worshipping something, whether it be humans, celestial bodies, stones, animals, fire, and others. When Islam came with its creed, it came to lead humanity from the worship of created beings to the worship of Allah, who created everything. Allah, Exalted is He, says in Surah Ar-Rum: ﴾So direct your face toward the religion, inclining to truth. And adhere to the fitrah (natural disposition) of Allah upon which He has created mankind. There is no changing the creation of Allah. That is the correct religion, but most of the people do not know.﴿ [Ar-Rum 30].
It does not present any imaginary conception that contradicts reason and opposes sensory perception, but rather its creed is rational, based on reason.
__________
(436) Al-Taysir fi Usul al-Tafsir. Author: Ata Abu al-Rashta. p. 47
