Allah, Exalted is He, says in [Al-Imran 26-27] ﴾Say, "O Allah, Owner of the Kingdom! You give the kingdom to whom You will and take away the kingdom from whom You will. You honor whom You will and humble whom You will. In Your hand is all good. Indeed, You are over all things competent. You bring the night into the day, and You bring the day into the night. And You bring the living out of the dead, and You bring the dead out of the living. And You give provision to whom You will without account."﴿ Reflect on how Allah, Exalted is He, has placed sustenance alongside great matters that only He can accomplish: bringing the night into the day, and the day into the night, and bringing the dead from the living and the living from the dead! And Allah, Exalted is He, says in a similar verse in Surah [Yunus 31]: ﴾Say, "Who provides for you from the heaven and the earth? Or who owns hearing and sight? And who brings the living out of the dead and brings the dead out of the living? And who directs the matter?" So they will say, "Allah." Say, "Then will you not fear Him?"﴿ And Allah, Exalted is He, says in Surah [Ar-Rum 40]: ﴾Allah is the One who created you, then provided for you, then will cause you to die, then will bring you to life. Is there any of your partners who does anything of that? Exalted is He above what they associate with Him.﴿ Reflect on how He has made sustenance among extraordinary actions that no one can perform except Allah, Exalted is He: creation, death, and life. Thus, sustenance is of the same nature, an extraordinary act that only Allah, Exalted is He, can perform: ﴾Is there any of your partners who does anything of that?﴿ No one can do any of that, nor can they provide even a date! Except by the permission of Allah, Exalted is He, ﴾Exalted is He above what they associate with Him!﴿ Blessed are His names! The same meaning is repeated in Surah [An-Nahl 73]: ﴾And they worship besides Allah that which does not possess for them any provision from the heavens and the earth. And they are unable.﴿ It is repeated in Surah [An-Naml 64]: ﴾Or who begins creation, then repeats it? And who provides for you from the heaven and the earth? Is there a deity with Allah? Say, "Bring forth your proof if you should be among the truthful."﴿
The Noble Qur'an contains verses about the promise of sustenance and that it is in the hand of Allah, Exalted is He: [Al-Ankabut 60-62]: ﴾And how many a creature carries not its own provision? Allah provides for it and for you. And He is the Hearing, the Knowing. And if you ask them who created the heavens and the earth and subjected the sun and the moon, they will surely say, "Allah." So how are they deluded? Allah extends provision for whom He wills of His servants and restricts it for whom He wills. Indeed, Allah is Knowing of all things.﴿ Also reflect: how many creatures on earth do not carry their provision on their backs, yet Allah provides for them the next day? They do not store the provision for tomorrow in the refrigerator, nor in warehouses and storages! Rather, they always and forever live on the provision of their day, and Allah provides for them every day! Their provision does not delay, every day! And for you!
Then Allah, Exalted is He, surprises you in the following verse, speaking about the creation of the heavens and the earth and the subjugation of the sun and the moon, all of which are by the act of Allah, to then reaffirm that the matter of sustenance is in the hand of Allah, Exalted is He, who extends it to whom He wills and restricts it, and He is Knowing of what is good for people and what benefits them. It is as if in the verse that interjects between the two verses discussing sustenance, there is a second indication that sustenance, like the creation of the heavens and the earth and the subjugation of the sun and the moon, those great verses that no one can perform except Allah, Exalted is He, sustenance is also of that nature, and only the Almighty, Exalted is He, can manage it. More astonishing is that Allah, Exalted is He, swears by Himself regarding sustenance, as He, the Exalted, said in [Adh-Dhariyat 20-23]: ﴾And in the earth are signs for the certain. And in yourselves. Will you not see? And in the heaven is your provision and that which you are promised. So by the Lord of the heaven and the earth, indeed, it is truth, like what you are speaking.﴿ Thus, sustenance is also a sign of Allah for the certain, its significance in indicating Allah, Exalted is He, the Omnipotent, is akin to the significance of the great signs by which one can infer the greatness of the Creator, Exalted is He, on earth, from stable mountains, seas, creatures, balance, and the position of the earth, and the wonders of His creation, and in the self and what it contains of the wonders of creation and precision. Likewise, the sign of sustenance, that it is in the heavens, in the hand of the Creator, Exalted is He alone, who manages it. So by the Lord of the heavens and the earth, indeed, it is truth! What a great oath this is!
