This is an example we have illustrated with one of the concepts of belief and its effect in motivating a person to act, and similar to this are the other positive concepts brought by Islamic belief; you will find them to be a driving force for the Muslim in the struggles of life,
Therefore, it is a living creed that connects this world with the Hereafter, making a person regard the sacrifice of precious and valuable things, even life itself, as small in response to what the responsibilities of this creed demand,
The concepts of Islam make a Muslim not fear death because he knows that death has a set time, which cannot be advanced or delayed. The concepts of Islam make a Muslim not fear for his sustenance because he knows it is apportioned. The concepts of Islam make a Muslim not despair at the loss of a loved one, wealth, or the occurrence of any calamity because he believes in divine decree (qadar) and believes that Allah tests the believers to expiate their sins and increase their good deeds. The concepts of Islam do not make a Muslim arrogant when blessings abound; rather, he is grateful to the Bestower and fulfills his rights. What a wonderful image our Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) painted for us: "I am amazed at the believer; all of his affairs are good. If he is afflicted with a blessing, he is grateful, and that is good for him. If he is afflicted with a hardship, he is patient, and that is good for him. So, all of the affairs of the believer are good."
From here, an Ummah (community) that possesses such a belief cannot be defeated,
especially since its enemies are based on a belief in: utilitarianism, immediate interests, and the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few, and they pay little attention to the conception of existence. Therefore, they cannot confront a belief with an opposing belief, nor a conception with a conception that invalidates or surpasses it. Thus, the battle of belief is decisively in favor of the Islamic Ummah. Neither missionary campaigns, nor Crusades, nor modern Western campaigns that aim to distort Islam, nor contemporary intellectual invasions, nor media invasions that focus on stirring instincts and attempting to distort Islam—none of this has benefited the West in deterring the Ummah from realizing the consequences of this living belief.
Yes, for all of this there are side effects, but in the long term, it does not deter the nation from believing in its creed and fulfilling what that creed requires. Its impact will undoubtedly fade away.
The most important element in our struggle against the enemies of Islam is this perception of the universe, humanity, and life,
And what has been proven throughout history is that when the Ummah (community) faced campaigns after campaigns, from the Crusaders to the Mongols, to the domination of dynasties over the Ummah, such as the Buyids and the Fatimids, among others, it only resulted in the Ummah awakening from its slumber each time to reclaim its position of leadership. In fact, one might find that those who attack it end up adopting its creed and returning as Muslims, as happened with some of the Tatars.
With these elevated doctrinal concepts, a person's character is influenced in the struggles of life; they approach it without fear of death, for they know that the afterlife is the eternal one, and without fear of people, for they understand that what has befallen them was not meant to miss them, and that sustenance is in the hands of Allah, and that life does not end except with the expiration of the term set by Allah, Exalted is He. They interact with their role in life positively, filled with tranquility and trust in Allah, Exalted is He, and reliance upon Him. When they undertake any action required by the Sharia, they do so in the best and most complete manner, and from this doctrinal perspective, they derive several important influences on how they manage the responsibilities entrusted to them. For example, a merchant, while trusting that sustenance is in the hands of Allah, Exalted is He, and that reliance is upon Allah, will conduct their trade influenced by these doctrinal perspectives (and others) in a manner that differs and distances itself from mere material considerations, thus adding wonderful dimensions to their life that give it meaning and bring them closer to their Lord, even while they engage in trade!
