And the ruling, in the sense of issuing a fatwa (legal opinion) and expressing an opinion that the speaker believes to be correct, is like the ruling on the invalidity of the transmigration of souls, the invalidity of the Trinity, the ugliness of lying, and its prohibition in Sharia, except in a few specified circumstances, such as His saying, Exalted is He: ﴾Should We make the Muslims like the criminals? What is [the matter] with you? How do you judge?﴿ 35-36 Al-Qalam. He (peace and blessings be upon him) said: “When a judge strives to make a decision and is correct, he has two rewards, and if he strives and errs, he has one reward.” Muslim, Book of Judgments(442).
And in the sense of wisdom, which is understanding the Book and having knowledge of the religion ﴾And We gave him judgment [while yet] a boy﴿ [Maryam 12].
And in the sense of mastering a craft, and reaching the goal of a matter (perfection, the Wise, and the Perfect).
The root of judgment is adjudication, in the broader sense of adjudication. Ibn Faris said: The root (ح ك م) has one origin, which is prevention(443). Al-Raghib al-Isfahani, may Allah have mercy on him, said: “To judge (حكم) means to prevent for the sake of correction, and from it, the bridle is called the wisdom of the animal. It is said: I judged it (حكمته) and I judged the animal (حكمتُ الدابة): I prevented it with wisdom, and I perfected it (أحكمتها) by giving it wisdom. Likewise, I judged the foolish person (حكمت السفيه) and perfected him (أحكمته). The poet said: ‘O Banu Hanifa, perfect your foolish ones!’
And to judge something means to decide that it is such and such, whether you impose that on others or not. It is said that a judge (حاكم) is one who judges between people, and the term الحَكَم (the judge) can refer to both singular and plural. It is said that we referred to the judge (تحاكمنا إلى الحاكم). The Arabs also say: I judged (حكمت) and perfected (أحكمت) and I judged (حكَّمت) in the sense of preventing and returning(444).(445)
__________
(442) Muslim, Book of Judgments. Number 1716 (We will rely on the book: Raed bin Sabri bin Abi Al-Alqama: The Six Books, Al-Rushd Library, Riyadh, 1st edition, 1426 AH = 2005 CE, and it will be referred to later as "The Six Books")
(443) Mu'jam Maqayis al-Lugha — 2/91 — Al-Halabi Press
(444) Mufradat Alfaz al-Quran — Entry for حكم 248 — Dar al-Qalam
(445) Tahdhib al-Lugha — 4/114
