The second section: Allah, Exalted is He, is the Judge: The right to legislate belongs solely and exclusively to Allah;
This section pertains to the fact that Allah, Exalted is He, is the Judge, the Sovereign, the Planner, the Legislator, the Commander and Prohibitor, the One who knows what is good for people and what reforms them, and who will hold people accountable for following His commands and refraining from His prohibitions. Therefore, the right to legislate belongs only to Him:
Allah, Exalted is He, has restricted the right to legislate to Himself alone, and has reserved it for His Glorious Self. He revealed it in a Book and a Sunnah that He inspired to His Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), and He forbade others from it (which is what is termed as sovereignty (hakimiyya))(453). Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Indeed, the judgment is only for Allah﴿ [6:57, 12:40, 12:67], and He said: ﴾And whatever you disagree about, its ruling is to Allah﴿ [42:10]. The term "judgment" in the language means prohibition, and it is said that a verdict is a judgment because it prevents from what is not judged, meaning that the judgment prevents people from acting except according to what has been decreed. Thus, only Allah has the right to prevent the ruled from acting except in accordance with His Sharia(454). Legislation establishes the meaning of servitude to Allah!
Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And judge between them by what Allah has revealed, and do not follow their desires, and beware lest they entice you away from some of what Allah has revealed to you﴿ [5:49], ﴾Do they seek the judgment of ignorance? And who is better in judgment than Allah for a people who are certain﴿ [5:50], ﴾Or do they have partners who have legislated for them in religion that which Allah has not permitted?﴿ [42:21], and He said: ﴾So if you disagree about anything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger if you believe in Allah and the Last Day﴿ [4:59].
Allah, Exalted is He, has permitted the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) to express the revelation that was sent down to him in his own words (peace and blessings be upon him), to clarify the legislative meanings, as Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And We have sent down to you the Reminder that you may clarify to the people what has been revealed to them﴿ [16:44], meaning that he (peace and blessings be upon him) was given the right to formulate the meanings that were revealed to him as legislation. What is legislated in the Sunnah that was revealed to the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) is legislation just as the legislation in the Qur'an is the same, and its source is revelation. What he formulates is infallible by revelation, and thus, from the revelation, there is a watchfulness to achieve utmost precision in conveying Allah's intent. He was infallible and spoke only the truth; these are guarantees that the words of the Sunnah were formulated under the care of revelation to convey the meanings that were revealed to him. Indeed, he (peace and blessings be upon him) permits and prohibits, commands what is good, and brings ease and leniency. Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom they find written in their Torah and Gospel, commands them with what is right and forbids them from what is wrong, and makes lawful for them the good things and prohibits for them the evil, and relieves them of their burdens and the shackles that were upon them. So those who believe in him, honor him, support him, and follow the light which has been sent down with him, it is they who will be successful﴿ [7:157]. As long as the term is general, it encompasses what he permits and prohibits, whether its source is the Qur'an or its source is the revelation sent down to him as Sunnah. Otherwise, what is the meaning of the conjunction for the actions performed by the unlettered Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) as an actor in permitting and prohibiting, alongside his actions of commanding and prohibiting and removing shackles, if the permissibility and prohibition were confined to the Qur'an? And Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Fight those who do not believe in Allah or in the Last Day and do not prohibit what Allah and His Messenger have prohibited﴿
__________
(453) Sovereignty is one of the characteristics of Lordship, as it is exclusive to Allah in legislation, and one of the characteristics of Divinity, as it singularizes Him in servitude and sanctification by adhering to what He has legislated and not taking others as lords who legislate in religion what Allah has not permitted, or change His rulings. ﴾Indeed, the judgment is only for Allah. He commanded that you not worship except Him. That is the correct religion, but most people do not know﴿ [12:40]. This verse combines the right of obedience and the right of worship. It is incumbent upon the servants to obey Allah in what He has commanded and to worship Him. Lordship, by its characteristics, entails legislative sovereignty, and whoever rules by other than what Allah has revealed rejects Allah's Lordship and its characteristics on one side, and claims for himself the right of Lordship and its characteristics on another side.
(454) From this, legislating among the servants for one another involves taking each other as lords besides Allah!
