The right to legislate is exclusively His alone(457), for it is confined to Him, Exalted is He, by virtue of His Lordship, as sovereignty is one of the characteristics of Lordship, with Allah alone being entitled to legislate(458). It is also one of the characteristics of Divinity, as He alone is to be worshipped and sanctified by adhering to what He has legislated and not taking others as lords who legislate in religion what Allah has not permitted or alter His rulings ﴾Indeed, judgment belongs to Allah. He has commanded that you not worship except Him. That is the correct religion, but most of the people do not know﴿ ﴾Joseph 40﴿. This verse combines the right of obedience and the right of worship; it is incumbent upon the servants to obey Allah in what He has commanded and to worship Him. Lordship, by its nature, entails legislative sovereignty, and whoever rules by other than what Allah has revealed indeed rejects Allah's Lordship and its characteristics on one side, while claiming for himself the right of Lordship and its characteristics on another side. Narrated by Mus'ab ibn Sa'd, from Adi ibn Hatim, who said: "I came to the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) and I had a gold cross around my neck. He said: 'O Adi, throw away this idol.' I heard him reciting in Surah At-Tawbah [verse 31] ﴾They took their scholars and monks as lords besides Allah﴿. He said: 'Indeed, they did not worship them, but when they permitted something for them, they deemed it permissible, and when they prohibited something for them, they deemed it prohibited.'”(459).
By examining the Noble Qur'an and the Pure Sunnah:
We will find that Allah, Exalted is He, has confined the right of legislation to Himself alone, and the term "judgment" in the language means prohibition; hence, it is said that the judiciary has a judgment because it prevents actions outside of what has been adjudicated. This means that the judgment prevents people from acting except in accordance with what has been decreed. Therefore, only Allah has the right to prevent the ruled from acting except in accordance with His Sharia(460), for legislation establishes the meaning of servitude to Allah!
He rules as He wills, and this is His right as the Lord, the God, the Creator, the Sovereign, the Owner, the Planner, the Wise, the All-Knowing, the Subtle, the Expert. ﴾Indeed, judgment belongs to Allah alone﴿, ﴾Al-An'am 57﴿, ﴾Yusuf 40﴿, ﴾Yusuf 67﴿, ﴾Indeed, Allah judges as He wills﴿ ﴾Al-Ma'idah 1﴿, ﴾And Allah judges; there is no repealer of His judgment﴿, ﴾Ar-Ra'd 41﴿, ﴾And who is better in judgment than Allah for a people who are certain?﴿ ﴾Al-Ma'idah 50﴿, ﴾And to Him belongs judgment, and to Him you will be returned﴿, ﴾Al-Qasas 70﴿, ﴾Then they will be returned to Allah, their true Lord. Unquestionably, His is the judgment, and He is the swiftest of accountants﴿ ﴾Al-An'am 62﴿, ﴾Unquestionably, to Him belongs creation and command﴿ ﴾Al-A'raf 54﴿, ﴾Or do they have partners who have legislated for them in religion that which Allah has not permitted? And if it had not been for the decisive word, it would have been concluded between them. And indeed, for the wrongdoers is a painful punishment﴿ ﴾Ash-Shura﴿, ﴾Say, "Have you considered what Allah has sent down to you of provision and made some of it unlawful and lawful?" Say, "Has Allah permitted you, or do you invent lies against Allah?"﴿ ﴾Yunus 59﴿. From the collective implications of these verses—and many others—the concept of sovereignty becomes clear;

__________
(457) It is mentioned in Madarij al-Salikin, vol. 2, p. 182: "Many people seek another authority to which they can refer for judgment and dispute, and they are content with its ruling. These three stations are the pillars of monotheism: not to take anyone else as a lord, nor a deity, nor another as a judge." End quote. Al-Mas'ari commented: "End of the text," where he made governance (hakamiyya) — which is taking Allah as the sole judge with no partner and not being content with any other judge — a pillar of monotheism. See: Hakamiyya and the Supremacy of Sharia by Dr. Al-Mas'ari, p. 39.
(458) Dr. Abdullah al-Mas'ari divided Tawhid (monotheism) into the following categories: 1) Tawhid of the essence (with the names and attributes falling under it), 2) Tawhid of creation, formation, and bringing into existence from non-existence, 3) Tawhid of governance and management, 4) Tawhid of sovereignty and legislation, 5) Tawhid of worship and sanctification, 6) Tawhid of obedience and following, 7) Tawhid of love and loyalty. See: Al-Hakimiyya and the Sovereignty of Sharia by Dr. al-Mas'ari, pp. 28-29.
(459) Narrated by al-Bukhari in "Al-Tarikh Al-Kabir" 7/106, and narrated by al-Bayhaqi in "Al-Sunan Al-Kubra" 10/116, and narrated by Imam al-Tirmidhi in "Al-Jami", Book of Tafsir, Chapter: From Surah Al-Tawbah, 5/278.
(460) From here, the legislation of slaves for one another involves taking some of them as lords besides Allah!
