It is commanded to judge by what Allah has revealed, otherwise it is disbelief, sin, or oppression! ﴾And whoever does not judge by what Allah has revealed, then it is they who are the disbelievers﴿, ﴾the oppressors﴿, ﴾the sinners﴿.
And it is commanded to refer disputes and conflicts to the Book and the Sunnah, that is, to His Sharia, otherwise faith is merely a claim! ﴾Have you not seen those who claim to believe in what has been revealed to you and what was revealed before you? They wish to refer to Taghut (tyranny) for judgment, while they were commanded to disbelieve in it. And Satan wishes to lead them astray far away﴿.
And it is denied that faith is realized without referring to, accepting, and submitting to what the Qur'an and Sunnah have judged: ﴾But no, by your Lord, they will not truly believe until they make you judge in that which they dispute among themselves, and then find no discomfort in themselves from what you have judged and submit in [full, willing] submission﴿.
And we will find that the Legislator has made the authority belong to the Ummah (community):(462)
He commanded the Ummah to implement the rulings (as for the rulings assigned to individuals, they apply them, and as for others, their implementation is for the state),
And He commanded them to pledge allegiance to a caliph who applies these rulings upon them: "The Children of Israel were governed by their prophets; whenever a prophet died, he was succeeded by another prophet, and there is no prophet after me. There will be caliphs, and they will be many." They asked, "What do you command us?" He said, "Fulfill the pledge of the first one and the first one, and give them their rights, for Allah will question them about what He entrusted them with." Agreed upon,
And He made the matter for those in authority, for they are responsible for their subjects and responsible for applying the rulings upon them: "The leader who is over the people is a shepherd, and he is responsible for them."(463) (al-Bukhari).
And He made obedience to the ruler (the caliph) in this matter part of obedience to Allah, Exalted is He, and His Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him). ﴾O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you. And if you disagree over anything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger if you should believe in Allah and the Last Day﴿.
And it is forbidden to rebel against him unless he rules with disbelief or attempts to manifest it in society: "And that we do not dispute the matter with its people." He said: "Except if you see clear disbelief with you, for which you have evidence from Allah."(464) Al-Bukhari.
And we will find that Allah, Exalted is He, will hold people accountable for adhering to His commands and refraining from His prohibitions, meaning He will hold them accountable for the weight of an atom of their deeds, that is, for their good or bad adherence to what He commanded. ﴾So whoever does an atom's weight of good will see it, and whoever does an atom's weight of evil will see it﴿.
And we will find that Allah, Exalted is He, made a vicegerent on earth, ﴾And when your Lord said to the angels, "Indeed, I will make upon the earth a vicegerent"﴿.
And He appointed some of His prophets as rulers ﴾O David, indeed We have made you a vicegerent upon the earth, so judge between the people in truth and do not follow desire, lest it lead you astray from the path of Allah﴿,
And He made the system of the caliphate after prophethood an extension of it in the responsibility of applying the rulings,
__________
(462) All of this is supported by evidence found in various places in the Book; see the details of its derivation and the texts of its hadiths.
(463) Sahih al-Bukhari: No. 2409
(464) Sahih al-Bukhari/ 7199, and Muslim/ 1842
