The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "The Children of Israel were governed by their prophets; whenever a prophet died, another prophet succeeded him. There will be no prophet after me, but there will be caliphs, and they will be many." They asked, "What do you command us?" He said: "Fulfill the pledge to the first and then the next, and give them their rights, for Allah will question them about what He entrusted them with."(465) And from Abu Sa'id al-Khudri, from the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), he said: "Allah did not send any prophet nor appoint any caliph except that he had two groups: one group commands him to do good and encourages him to do so, and another group commands him to do evil and encourages him to do so. The one who is protected is the one whom Allah, Exalted is He, protects."(466)
Imam Ahmad narrated from al-Nu'man ibn Bashir (may Allah be pleased with him) who said: We were sitting in the mosque when Abu Thalabah al-Khushani came and said: "O Bashir ibn Sa'd, do you remember the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) regarding the leaders?" Huthayfa said: "I remember his sermon." So Abu Thalabah sat down. Huthayfa said: The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Prophethood will remain among you as long as Allah wills it to remain, then Allah will lift it when He wills. Then there will be a caliphate upon the method of prophethood, and it will be as long as Allah wills it to be, then Allah will lift it when He wills. Then there will be a biting kingship, and it will be as long as Allah wills it to be, then Allah will lift it when He wills. Then there will be a tyrannical kingship, and it will be as long as Allah wills it to be, then Allah will lift it when He wills. Then there will be a caliphate upon the method of prophethood." Then he was silent."(467)
The obligation to refer to His law that was revealed in the books and sent with the messengers:
﴾The people were one nation, so Allah sent the prophets as bearers of good news and warners, and He sent down with them the Book in truth to judge between the people in that in which they differed. And none differed concerning it except those who were given it after the clear proofs had come to them, out of envy between them. And Allah guided those who believed to that in which they differed of the truth by His permission, and Allah guides whom He wills to a straight path.﴿ [al-Baqarah 213], ﴾Have you not seen those who were given a portion of the Scripture, being invited to the Book of Allah to arbitrate between them? Then a party of them turned away, and they were refusing.﴿ [Aal Imran 23], ﴾But no, by your Lord, they will not believe until they make you judge in that which they dispute among themselves, and then find within themselves no discomfort from what you have judged and submit in [full, willing] submission.﴿ [an-Nisa 65], ﴾They are listeners to falsehood, devourers of illicit gain. So if they come to you, either judge between them or turn away from them(468). And if you turn away from them, they will not harm you at all. And if you judge, judge between them with justice. Indeed, Allah loves those who act justly. And how [will they] make you their judge while they have the Torah in which is the judgment of Allah? Then they turn away after that, and those are not the believers. Indeed, We sent down the Torah, in which is guidance and light, by which the prophets who submitted [to Allah] judged for those who were Jews, and the rabbis and the scholars, by that which they were entrusted of the Book of Allah, and they were witnesses over it. So do not fear the people but fear Me, and do not exchange My verses for a small price. And whoever does not judge by what Allah has revealed - then it is those who are the disbelievers.﴿ [al-Ma'idah 43]
__________
(465) Narrated by Muslim, al-Bukhari, Ahmad, and Ibn Majah
(466) Sahih al-Bukhari: The chapter on the inner circle of the imam and his advisors, the inner circle of the deceivers, no. 6773
(467) This hadith is good; narrated by Ahmad (30/355, hadith 18406), al-Bazzar, and al-Tabarani in al-Awsat (6577), and the chain of Ahmad is good; it includes Dawud ibn Ibrahim al-Wasiti, who was narrated by al-Tayalisi, and he was trusted, and Ibn Hibban mentioned him among the trustworthy ones. [Refer to the verification of the Musnad, Dar al-Risalah edition (30/355).
(468) The meaning of this verse and what it contains regarding the choice between judging among them or turning away from them applies only to those who came to the Islamic state from outside it to seek judgment from Muslims in a dispute with another disbeliever or other disbelievers. The Muslims have the choice to judge among them or to turn away from them. This verse was revealed regarding those with whom the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) made treaties from the Jews of Medina, and they were tribes considered as other states; they were not subject to the authority of Islam, but were another state, and thus there were treaties between him and them. However, if they were subject to the authority of Islam, such as being dhimmis, or if they came as seekers of protection, they must be judged only by Islam, and if any of them refused to return to the judgment of Islam, the ruler would compel him to do so and enforce it upon him. See: The introduction to the constitution or the reasons for it, by Hizb al-Tahrir, explanation of Article 3 of the constitution. Therefore, it was said in its covenant: ﴾And how will they make you their judge while they have the Torah in which is the judgment of Allah? Then they turn away after that, and those are not the believers.﴿ [al-Ma'idah 43].
