The third detail: For people to uphold justice:
Indeed, the Almighty sent the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) and revealed the Book, with rulings that were sent down for people to uphold justice, and Allah, Exalted is He, is the best of judges, ﴾So be patient until Allah judges between us, and He is the best of judges﴿ [al-A'raf 87]. He knows what is best for people and what will rectify them, and He revealed the Sharia (Islamic law) to govern every matter of life, such that any dispute in any issue is referred back to these rulings. This means that He legislated for us our system of life, at the level of the individual, the community, and the state, and He obligated us to implement this system and to live by it, so that the system becomes our way of life, and we submit to it in our economic, political, social, judicial, and punitive relationships, etc. The legislator rejected any other system and prohibited arbitration to it, commanding disbelief in it!
He described every system that does not originate from what the Almighty legislated as being tyranny (taghut) or ignorance (jahiliyyah), ﴾Do they seek the judgment of ignorance? And who is better in judgment than Allah for a people who are certain?﴿ [al-Ma'idah 50]. And He said: ﴾But no, by your Lord, they will not believe until they make you judge in that which they dispute among themselves﴿ [an-Nisa 65], ﴾They want to refer to the taghut while they were commanded to disbelieve in it﴿ [an-Nisa 60], and there are many other verses on this subject. This pertains to judgment; these verses clearly indicate that judgment is only by what Allah has revealed, and that the reference is only to Allah and the Messenger, meaning to the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him). Judging by other than what Allah has revealed is judgment by tyranny and ignorance, and resorting to tyranny or ignorance is prohibited, and whoever does not judge by what Allah has revealed is either a disbeliever, a sinner, or an oppressor. The recourse to Allah's methodology is only in every matter that arises among people, and whoever resorts to the taghut, their faith is merely a claim that does not manifest in reality.
The prohibition of systems of governance that contradict the Islamic system, considering them as ignorance and tyranny, the command to disbelieve in them, and the prohibition of resorting to them is a conclusive evidence(469) that Islam imposes a specific system for governance and politics on people, and considers adherence to it an obligation. Moreover, it clarifies that it is a system imposed by Allah and not left for humans to create or agree upon!
There are definitive verses in the Qur'an that are clear in their indication regarding judging by what Allah has revealed and resorting to His legislation, which deny faith from those who act contrary to that. It has been mentioned in the books of exegesis that whoever judges by other than what Allah has revealed, denying its validity, is a disbeliever because they deny a ruling that is definitively established and clear in its indication. And whoever judges by other than what Allah has revealed while acknowledging it as the truth, but follows desires or orders from other entities, is between being an oppressor and a sinner. If we apply these descriptions to the caliph, they do not apply to him because one of the conditions for appointing a caliph is that he must be a Muslim and not a disbeliever, just, and not a sinner, and just, and not an oppressor, ﴾And when you judge between people, judge with justice﴿, which indicates the obligation to appoint a caliph who judges with justice and by what Allah has revealed, and indicates the system of caliphate that will establish justice and judgment by what Allah has revealed, and provides conclusive evidence that man-made systems are forbidden!
As for the methodology and systems, you will find hundreds of verses that are definitive in their indication regarding the details of this system, which collectively form the constitution of the state and its systems and detailed rulings, from the verses and hadiths that address the economic system, social relations, relations between the Islamic state and other states, war legislation, criminal law, financial systems, internal and external politics, treaties, and the state's responsibilities for securing the basic needs of people, and so on. We will mention
__________
(469) The indication of obligation
