Methodological Introduction:
Indeed, the legislations in any society or state are not an end in themselves, but rather tools whose function is to organize human behavior (i.e., human actions), the relationships among individuals in society, and the systems of the state, as well as to organize the pursuit of benefits(483) and to organize the prevention of harms(484) whenever evidence comes to alert us to the places of good and righteousness, to establish a balance of good and evil, right and wrong, to achieve happiness, and to regulate behavior (i.e., to achieve specific goals or objectives at the level of the individual, society, and state), within a framework aimed at achieving a set of values and higher objectives that ensure the welfare of the individual, the stability of society, and the justice of the state.
These values that legislations seek to achieve and establish can be divided into foundational rules and practical applied values, the most prominent of which are:
__________
(483) Note our saying: organizing the pursuit of benefits, because the angle from which we will look is not the pursuit of benefit by any means or legislation, that is, the rationale for legislation is not the pursuit of benefit, but rather the organization of relationships in a system that will achieve the fulfillment of human needs regardless of entering into the details: what is the benefit or the desired interest from the legislation, and what is the harm, because this is a relative speculative inquiry that is sometimes valid and often invalid, it is a dangerous angle if taken as a criterion for the validity of legislations. The capable person obligated to lend people with usury might then ask: Did the prohibition of usury achieve a benefit for me? If he is deprived of material gain, he will view the legislation as having not brought him any benefit, because it prevented him from a means to increase his wealth. Therefore, Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And whatever you give in usury so that it may increase in the wealth of the people, it will not increase with Allah; and whatever you give in zakah seeking the countenance of Allah, those are the ones who will have multiplied﴿. Thus, increasing your wealth through usury is not the benefit, nor is it true growth; rather, increasing it through zakah is what truly increases it, but you do not know. The borrower asks the same question, thinking that his interest may not be fulfilled due to the lack of financing except through usury, or he may rejoice in the prohibition because it has protected him from entering the cycle of usury. Thus, the solution and legislation enter into a dilemma, as a result of the varying perspectives and estimations of people regarding benefits! That is, it is not the case that a person looks at benefits and harms through his own opinions and desires, thinking that the benefit is what he loves or what brings him immediate material gain, and that the harm is what he dislikes or what harms him, as these are partial measures that are insufficient to issue a correct judgment on whether a behavior, system, legislation, or relationship will truly bring a benefit or not? Will it truly avert a harm or not? These measures are not suitable to be the basis upon which we organize society! Allah, Exalted is He, has informed us that abstaining from jihad is throwing oneself into destruction, and that fighting - which a person usually dislikes - is better for us, and that Allah knows while man does not know. This is because the inquiry does not limit itself to aspects of issues without others to determine good and evil, benefit and harm, interest and harm; therefore, the true pursuit of benefits and the true prevention of harms can only be achieved through correct organization, which only the wise legislator can accomplish. Wherever there is legislation, there is benefit. If the system is from a human source that is incapable of perceiving benefits and harms, good and evil, and beauty and ugliness, it will necessarily fail to achieve the public interests correctly. However, if the system is divine legislation, it will achieve for people the righteousness of their livelihood, prevent them from corruption on earth, and establish justice and goodness.
(484) The pursuit of benefits and the prevention of harms are not the rationale for legal rulings in general, as there is no text indicating that the pursuit of benefits and the prevention of harms is a rationale for legal rulings, nor is there any text indicating that it is a rationale for a specific ruling, thus it cannot be a legal rationale. Especially since the true benefits and harms are unknown to humans, who may think something is beneficial while it is harmful, and vice versa. Consequently, the judgment on estimating benefits rationally varies, which makes the benefit in itself subordinate to the legal ruling and not the other way around. Our statement does not mean that the legislation came to harm creation, but the true benefit and righteousness, which is the essence of legislation, is not what minds estimate as a benefit, but rather the system that will address the need that some have estimated as a benefit and others as a harm, to say its word in organization, that is, by leaving the estimation of benefit to Allah and establishing the correct legal remedy, and wherever He legislates, there is righteousness and benefit. Meanwhile, you see the legislation alerting us to the places of good and righteousness for us, especially what we neglect, as in His saying: ﴾Go forth, light and heavy, and strive with your wealth and your lives in the cause of Allah; that is better for you if you only knew﴿. However, at the same time, it legislates rulings where the benefit is not inherent in the ruling itself, for example, where do you find the benefit in raising the finger during the Tashahhud in prayer, or where is the benefit in His command to the Children of Israel to kill themselves? ﴾And when Moses said to his people, "O my people, you have wronged yourselves by taking the calf; so repent to your Creator and kill yourselves; that is best for you with your Creator﴿. Thus, the true benefit lies in obeying Allah's commands, and not necessarily in the act that is required to be performed, nor in what "the mind estimates and the desires imagine as a benefit in accordance with their inclinations, desires, and interests."
