To ensure the validity of legislation and its suitability for organizing human life, we examine the issue from seven angles:
The first: an angle related to the characteristics of the entity that will legislate the law or regulation to ensure its validity and suitability,
And the second: related to understanding the reality for which the legislation or law is to be established,
And the third: the determinants and characteristics that guarantee the suitability of the legislation related to its application in reality so that it yields certain results that reflect its validity and suitability based on its ability to bring about those results in reality and lead to achieving specific goals and objectives,
And the fourth: the angles that study the necessary and conjectural influences related to reality or its understanding or the application of the ruling,
And the fifth: the effect of natural and exceptional circumstances on the ruling,
And the sixth: ensuring the integration of the ruling and legislation with the system of other rulings related to similar or related issues (such as social system issues or economic system issues) and ensuring that it does not conflict with them to achieve certain goals for the system as a whole.
And the seventh: guarantees that ensure the acceptance of this legislation by those who will be subjected to it to ensure its implementation and adherence, in terms of either granting this entity the authority to legislate or acknowledging its right to legislate.
Refer to the chapter: How Islam addresses human problems with a solution that does not change over time and space, especially the concept of instincts and organic needs and their relation to behavior, to build upon it what follows - with God's permission.
The determinants and characteristics that guarantee the suitability of legislation that the legislator must possess:
Possessing the authority granted to the ruler to impose legislations, and the right to act on behalf of the community, and thus to establish, based on those legislations, the authority that will be a legal reference for reward and punishment, because the purpose of legislations is the commitment of the individual and the community to apply them. And since "this application is contingent upon the individual's own will to obey and implement, his will over himself is guaranteed if he legislates for himself"(488), but we have proven his need for legislation from others due to his need for social interaction, and this other can be either a community, a state, or a religion. However, the right to obey other humans is contingent upon their possession of authority granted to them by him, or by the community by imposing legislations upon him and them. And when democracy, secularism, and liberalism failed to establish legislation or a constitution that represents the majority of what is called the "general will"(489), as we have demonstrated in the course of our book (The Black Box of Western Thought) and in its executive summary,
(So even if we theoretically concede the principle of the sovereignty of the nation, that is, the existence of a will independent of the will of individuals, in reality, the will of the nation only appears in the form of the will of the majority of the nation's individuals - which is difficult to achieve; but even assuming its achievement - then sovereignty belongs to the majority and not to the entire nation. What is the legal reason for the right to subjugate the minority?
__________
(488) Dr. thinker Muhammad al-Malkawi.
(489) The democratic doctrine: (It is one that traces the origin of authority or its source to the general will of the nation, and it asserts that authority is not legitimate unless it arises from the general will of the nation), The intermediary in constitutional law – by Dr. Abdul Hamid Metwally, p. 125, because the nation cannot enjoy its right to absolute sovereignty unless (the law is the expression of the will of the nation) Principles of Constitutional Law – Dr. Sayyid Sabri, p. 52, 4th ed., 1949.
