for the majority)(490) then stripping the minority of its right to exercise sovereign actions, leading to a situation where the majority imposes its will on the general will! And depriving the minority of their established rights, thus the democratic philosophy fell into contradiction when it based its perspective on the premise that sovereignty belongs to the people, all the people absolutely, and then deprived a large part of this people of its right to political action. Therefore, democracy was dangerous, as it cloaked chains in a popular guise.(491)
And it failed to establish guarantees that ensure the legislation and constitution achieve good and public interest (maslaha) in a permanent manner, and it failed to reach a mechanism to refer back to the grassroots for consultation on the issues raised and the determinants of the public interest, meaning it failed to ensure that the legislative authority has the right to act on behalf of the community. Instead, it placed legislation in the hands of a group of constitutional jurists, lawyers, and political parties that hold a parliamentary majority (which we have proven in our book: The Black Box of Western Thought does not represent the majority of voters), thus it lost the element of the legislators possessing any authority granted to them to impose legislation, which makes obedience to the law and legislation among individuals unnatural and not intrinsic, but rather not resulting from any right possessed by the legislative group, (which can only be described in this case as dictatorship and domination over society), in addition to lacking the motivation that drives obedience and commitment. Furthermore, the legislation of slaves for one another involves taking each other as lords besides Allah, because legislation entails submission to the legislator and obedience to him and directing behavior according to his vision, which contradicts the fact that people were created free, but they were created as servants of Allah. All of this is in contrast to the legislation issued by Allah as He is the Creator, Lord, God, Owner, Manager, and Judge.
The legislator must be characterized by infallibility from error, which requires the ability to know everything related to points (T) and (Th) below, and must be characterized by immunity from contradictions, discrepancies, deficiencies, flaws, and absurdity, and must be characterized by equity, justice, and fairness, so that he does not wrong anyone, and by the ability of legislation to achieve security, and by objectivity represented in being free from bias, whims, and alignment with narrow, immediate interests, so that he does not favor one over another. Meanwhile, we often find human legislators influenced by their personal moods and whims or the whims of elites, and by their emotional and non-objective biases.
There is no doubt that objectivity, and the establishment of truth that affects and defines the public interest, so that people act with equity, and infallibility from error in issuing judgments are affected by the varying capacity of the mind to legislate, that is, its perspective on solving problems and codifying solutions, and is affected by the interference of cultures, customs, environments, desires, tastes, and whims, and the varying mental capacities, specializations, and innate and instinctual inclinations, both strong and weak, and the effect of all this on the ability to legislate and issue judgments.
Thus, the capacities of minds vary in strength and weakness, and in assessing harm and benefit, and judgments are affected by whims and inclinations, and judgments vary among people, what one person sees as good, another sees as ugly, and the estimation of minds varies regarding the ways to achieve interests, and minds vary in understanding the harmony of laws with the fabric of general law in the state and its realization of the value system.
__________
(490) Constitutional Law – Dr. Abdul Fattah Sayyidhar, margin, page 63.
(491) Dr. Mahmoud Khalidi, Islam and the Foundations of Governance, with modifications.
