And with a scrutinizing look at the Islamic system, we find it to be a comprehensive framework that has a nature that necessitated its distinction, giving it a unique and independent character. It organizes human life, "not only in this worldly life, but also in the Hereafter, and not only in the realm of the seen, but also in the realm of the unseen that is hidden from it, and not only in the apparent material transactions, but also in the depths of the conscience, and the world of secrets and intentions. It is, therefore, a vast and immense institution, and it must have roots and depths that match this vastness and enormity and spread"(73). From here, the entry of falsehood, represented by any values taken from Western civilization, into this system of truth is corrupting it, and does not support its pillars. Its entry disrupts its organization, hindering the functioning of its systems that complement one another to achieve their objectives, like a foreign body implanted in the system, causing the system to work on solving the problems resulting from that foreign body, instead of continuing to interact, organize, produce, integrate, and pulse with life!
It is also evident that a nation distinguished from others by the elevation of its values, beliefs, perceptions, and legislations that shape its civilization and way of life is superior to another nation that does not share that elevation. Thus, the Islamic nation achieves its excellence and superiority over other nations! ﴾You are the best nation brought forth for mankind; you enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong and believe in Allah﴿ [110- Al-Imran].
And indeed, after reflection and contemplation, we have not seen a living creed that is embodied in a system of life and a way of living, from which a set of lofty, noble values has crystallized, in a manner free from contradictions, except in the Islamic creed and the divine legislation!
As for the other civilizations, they were filled with contradictions, distorted perceptions, and their strong dominated the weak. They carried the banner of ignorance, corruption, colonialism, enslavement, and destruction for humanity,
__________
(73) Sayyid Qutb, Milestones, pp. 31-32, and the following paragraphs are derived from the book Milestones, with significant modifications.
