Refuting the ability of science to determine legislation: the methodological errors of psychology and sociology:
Some Western research has defined behaviour as: "the set of actions and interactions that individuals carry out in response to internal or external stimuli. This includes verbal and non-verbal expressions and actions that reflect emotions, thoughts and values. Behaviour can be conscious or unconscious, voluntary or involuntary, and is influenced by a variety of psychological, social and biological factors."
Some Western theories have also sought to identify the motives that drive a person to act, among them the theory of needs of the psychologist Abraham Maslow in the mid-twentieth century. He set out a hierarchy of needs that places the satisfaction of the basic physiological (bodily) needs for survival (such as food, water, breathing, sleep and reproduction) at the base of the pyramid; after these are met, the person seeks to meet the higher needs, which are the needs for safety and security, such as physical, employment, health and financial security; then the social needs, such as belonging and love, personal relationships and friendship, on the basis that humans are by nature social beings who seek to connect with others and also seek to meet their needs by forming relationships with others; then come the needs for esteem and respect from others, which include self-confidence, achievement and recognition of achievements; and the need for self-esteem is at the top of his pyramid, arising from realizing their potential and developing their skills and talents.
However, critics of this theory have affirmed that matters are more intertwined and complex than this simplification.
Other motives for behaviour are psychological motives, which include the need for belonging, love, esteem, self-actualization and achievement.
Among them are environmental factors, such as the events surrounding a person that drive him to act or influence his behaviour,
and among them are social and cultural pressures and societal values.
It is noticeable that these motives can easily be traced back to the principle that behaviour takes place only to satisfy the instincts and organic needs, as we have explained in this research in more than one place.
If behaviour is a person's moving to act or refraining from it, he must have certain determinants and ideas that show him the soundness of his position or of that action: will his action be good or ugly? Will it be good or evil? Will he be rewarded for it or punished for it? Then what will determine all of that is the "system", whether the system emanating from the creed that the person holds, which has defined for him the concepts of good and evil, reward and punishment, and good and ugly, or the system that will manage individual and societal relationships in a framework that makes the community fit to live together and regulates the individual's relations with others.
Will the place where a person lives determine for him the concepts that decide whether this action of his is good or evil? Will the tablet device a person uses to read the news, watch films or organize his appointments determine that "theft" is an ugly act, and that its correct penalty, which will deter society and punish the thief with a punishment equivalent to the offence, is the cutting off of the hand? Or will it determine for him "the details of how to carry out transactions (such as sale and marriage, that is, contracts: their pillars, their subject, their formulas, the factors affecting them, their conditions, their dissolution, etc.)" so as to make him act correctly? There is no doubt that the device will draw its information from the system prevailing in the state's order, or in the Sharia, or in law, and it will not be itself
