Using laws to reap profits as an example
Similarly, we find that Western societies have long suffered from the problem of drugs in their various forms, and they sought to find solutions. Some allowed the establishment of drug injection centers to reduce the possibility of disease transmission resulting from the use of the same needles by more than one person, and to find treatments for overdoses that could kill the user. The law changed to provide solutions for "the symptoms of societal diseases" instead of addressing the problem at its root. Consequently, many societies began to permit the use of cannabis (hashish, marijuana), after it had been legally prohibited. Its use became legal, despite serious medical reports regarding its long-term and short-term effects on youth and people. This legalization gave rise to a multi-billion dollar market that benefited a class of capitalists who control these states! Thus, we pose the same question: If its use is indeed aligned with achieving the objectives mentioned above, why was it prohibited for a time? And if you later realized the extent of its dangers and harms to society, how do you rectify your mistake? Where is the justice? Where is the equality between those who were prohibited from it and those for whom it was legalized? Moreover, it must be noted that the legislator relied on the same controls and rules when he legislated the prohibition of the use of that substance and when he legislated its legality. The reality of the substance did not change, nor did the medical reports that indicate its risks, nor the dangers to society and health, nor the legislative goals and objectives related to this issue. The question is: What are the controls that helped the legislator change his perspective to view the use of that substance as permissible now when it was not permissible yesterday!
Thus, the law must be valid for all times and places, ensuring the achievement of justice and the best interests for all people at all times and places, and not allowing human society to be a field for legal experiments!
Therefore, since the arena of changes in human life is constantly fluctuating and changing, human laws always change with changing realities, and the perspective on problems and the suitability of societal development with the perspective on problems and their solutions. This is far from making laws characterized by stability, and the correct treatment of the problem related to humans. What was prohibited yesterday is permissible today, and what is permissible today may be prohibited tomorrow!
The Polish orientalist, Bożena Gajewska Stchigiewska, states: "The human legislations issued by democratic assemblies are not fixed, nor do they carry in their texts the attribute of absolute permissibility or absolute prohibition, especially concerning individual rights and duties, and personal responsibility. This is because they are based on evolving interests and needs. It is known that interests and needs change and transform according to circumstances and conditions. It is not surprising in the history of human legislations that the latest contradicts the earliest in some of its details, and that what was disliked becomes recommended, what was prohibited becomes permissible, and what was condemned becomes ordinary"(527).
Therefore, all consideration falls away from the statement of Abraham Lincoln, whom he claims to be the father of American democracy, as he asks: "Why do we not have complete confidence in the ultimate justice of the rule of the people?"(528). When we recall the statement of Napoleon(529): "The best constitutions are those that are...
__________
(527) History of the Islamic State and its Legislation, Polish orientalist: Bożena Gajewska Stchigiewska, p. 6.
(528) Politics and Governance – Dr. Al-Omari, p. 136, Anglo-Egyptian Library.
(529) He was the Emperor of France, graduated as an artillery officer in 1785, participated in expelling the British from Toulon in 1793, became a hero of France, invaded Egypt, defeated the Mamluks at the Battle of Imbaba, and was defeated before the impregnable walls of Acre in Palestine. He died of cancer on May 5, 1821 (The Concise Arabic Encyclopedia, p. 1812, 1965 edition).
