And determining his position regarding the things related to his actions, whether he takes them, leaves them, or is given a choice between taking and leaving? This determination of his position depends on his view of the thing, whether it is good, bad, or neither good nor bad?
The judgment on actions and things can be from the perspective of their reality as they are, and from the perspective of their suitability to human nature and innate inclinations, or their opposition to them, and it can also be from the perspective of praise for doing them and blame for leaving them, or neither praise nor blame, that is, from the perspective of reward and punishment for them, or the absence of reward and punishment. Thus, there are three aspects to judging things: the first is regarding their reality as they are, the second is regarding their suitability to human nature or their opposition to it, and the third is regarding reward and punishment or praise and blame.
Then, when a judge rules in a particular case, let us take the example of the issue of murder, this judge will find that the act of murder itself may be "right" or "wrong," or "good" or "bad," based on the reality of the thing or action, and based on its suitability to nature, or reason, or instinct, or any specific values he adopts as a basis for judgment, or its opposition to these values, and based on the reward and punishment for it, and there is no fourth angle to these three angles for judging any case or any action.
Therefore, there must be a "measure" to refer to in order to describe the action as good or bad, and to take a position regarding it; this measure secularism prevents from being religious, moral, or humanitarian, but it must be purely rational. The pure intellect devoid of "values" is what will issue its judgment, for ethics may label a certain action as despicable, such as a skilled swimmer loitering on the road while seeing a drowning person on the verge of death, and not striving to save him. Religious values may label the act of killing an innocent soul as forbidden, and lying to enemies in war as obligatory. Thus, from a "secular" perspective, the legislator, thinker, or secularist must disassociate from all these values when considering the action and determining his position regarding it.
When a rational person performs an action, he must have an "intention" behind performing this action, and this intention is the "value" he wants to achieve when performing this action. Therefore, it is imperative that there is a value for every action that a person considers achieving when performing the work; otherwise, it would be mere folly. A person should not perform his actions aimlessly without intention, but he must consider achieving the values of the actions he intends to perform.
The value of the action(539) may be a material value, such as commercial, agricultural, and industrial activities, for the purpose of performing these actions is to generate material benefits from them, which is profit, and it is a value of significance in life. Or the value of the action may be humanitarian, such as saving drowning people and aiding the distressed, for the purpose of this is to save a human being regardless of his color, gender, religion, or any other consideration apart from humanity. Or the value of the action may be moral, such as honesty, trustworthiness, and compassion, for the purpose of this is the moral aspect regardless of benefits and regardless of humanity, as morality may be with non-humans, such as kindness to animals and birds, and moral action may result in material loss, but achieving its value is obligatory, which is the moral aspect. Or the value of the action may be spiritual, such as acts of worship, for the purpose of these is not material benefits, nor
__________
(539) Concepts of Hizb al-Tahrir
