There is no doubt that the evaluation of an action cannot be based solely on whether it is good or bad from the perspective of humans; rather, it must be good or bad from the perspective of the Lawgiver (Shari'ah). What the Lawgiver deems good is indeed good, and what the Lawgiver deems bad is indeed bad. Otherwise, it would be expected that the reward for someone who performs the same action, whether a Muslim or a non-Muslim, would be equal, were it not for the fact that the Lawgiver has deemed the action good based on the reward for it, while the action of the non-Muslim is without reward in the Hereafter.
Indeed, lying, as a rationally bad action, may be deemed good if it involves a public interest, such as saving a prophet from the hands of an oppressor. And truthfulness, as a rationally good action, may be deemed bad if it involves a public harm, such as the destruction of a prophet at the hands of an oppressor. If goodness and badness were subjective, then this goodness and badness would not cease to exist, and thus what makes lying good and truthfulness bad would never be the case. Since the subject of judgment encompasses all actions and things, we will find that reason is incapable of evaluating all things and actions. The external considerations surrounding the action create numerous angles that must be taken into account when judging goodness or badness, many of which reason may not fully grasp. Consequently, a judgment may be issued, only for the judge to later realize the inadequacy of that judgment due to other considerations that were not accounted for, leading them to reconsider; and so on!
Moreover, we find that judgment is not limited to a single action or thing; rather, it operates within the framework of achieving "general objectives" such as human dignity, and is evaluated in the context of achieving "societal values" such as honoring parents, the rights of neighbors, or being part of a system aimed at creating "social systems" like social solidarity. These have a significant impact and are all external to the action or thing, which means that reason cannot judge goodness and badness based solely on "intrinsic qualities of the action or thing that make the judgment clear and unambiguous"!
The perspective of good and evil:
From the perspective of good and evil, that is, from the viewpoint of their effect in the eyes of humans, and regarding the inclination towards or abstention from them, the perspective of improvement and condemnation relates to perfection and beauty, while the perspective of good and evil relates to a doctrinal or moral viewpoint, that is, imposing human values on the action and thing to describe them as good or evil.
Humans label actions that harm or are disliked by them as evil, and label actions that benefit or are liked by them as good due to their effects, regardless of goodness and badness, which are not considered in this case. (That is, the perspective from which they view here is the angle of the effect of their values in describing the action, not the angle of the perfection of the action or its opposite). Regardless of right and wrong, based on this perspective, they engage in the action and refrain from it. The correction to this perspective is that an action is not said to be good or evil based on dislike and love or benefit and harm, but rather its measurement as good or evil is based on the pleasure of Allah, Exalted is He. Thus, goodness and evil are not evaluated by the criteria of love and hate, or benefit and harm. (For wine and gambling, there is great harm and a tremendous sin, and benefits for people, but their sin is greater than their benefit.) Rather, they are evaluated by the criterion of the pleasure of Allah. Goodness and evil are effects of a value perspective, not of material or moral benefits and harms. This value perspective is external to the action itself, and values vary among humans. Killing may be described as good or evil based on the external factors surrounding it, and by imposing values that can only judge goodness or evil if they are correct in their divine reference, to issue a correct judgment on the action as being good or evil. Therefore, it must have an infallible source free from error, desires, and bias, etc., such as killing the enemy or the friend.
