The values that govern that action, such as the distinction between the killing of a dhimmi (protected non-Muslim) and a mu'ahid (a non-Muslim with a treaty), and between the killing of a harbi (enemy combatant) and the killing of those today referred to as civilians in the land of war, as well as the killing of combatants on the battlefield, all of these are subject to values that come from outside to describe some as good and others as evil, and they are not inherent to the action itself, so reflect!
Thus: actions do not have intrinsic value based on which they can be described as good or evil; rather, the description of good and evil comes from external considerations and circumstances related to the action, (that is, from the system, which in turn must ensure the validity of its treatments to achieve the correctness of the description of good or evil in the manner we detailed regarding the nature of the criteria in the fourth point above, which can only be represented by a divinely sourced system) regardless of benefit and harm, love and hate. Killing may be good or it may be evil; killing the aggressive enemy is good, while killing an innocent person unjustly is evil. The reference for all of this is religion, not reason, because reason is subject to variation, difference, and contradiction. The measurements of reason regarding good and evil are influenced by the environment in which a person lives, and they may vary and differ across ages as they succeed one another. If the measurement of evil and good were left to reason, something could be considered evil by one group of people and good by another; indeed, the same thing could be good in one era and evil in another, even though the description of an action as evil or good should apply to all of humanity across all ages. Therefore, it is necessary for the statement of whether an action is good or evil to come from a power beyond reason, which is Allah, Exalted is He. Consequently, human measurements of good and evil, and of good and evil qualities, are varied and contradictory because they stem from a limited intellect and fluctuating feelings that are not stable. It is therefore not correct to leave the measurement of good and evil, and of good and evil qualities, to humans, as this leads to differences from one era to another and from one group to another,(544). The external considerations surrounding the action create numerous angles that must be taken into account when judging good or evil, and good or evil qualities, which the intellect may not encompass most of them, or their future impact on the doer or on society. An immediate benefit may appear that turns into harm after a while, or vice versa, or it may bring benefit to one person and harm to society, or the opposite. A judgment may be issued, and then it becomes clear to the person that there is a deficiency in that judgment due to other considerations that were not accounted for, leading them to reconsider it, and so on,
Therefore, values are what describe an action as good or evil, and these values are precisely what we mean when we say: the Sharia (law) is what judges good or evil. As for human values, making them the basis for judging good or evil is a role, and it is invalid, because they themselves need to be described as good or evil. This means that if we assume that capitalist values are what will be imposed on the action to describe it as good or evil, and these values are a product of the mind, we have agreed that the mind cannot judge an action as good or evil except by imposing external values. If these external values come from the mind itself, they need something to describe them as good or evil or to make them suitable for describing the action as good or evil. This is a role, and the role is invalid and impossible! Thus, the judgment of good or evil must be taken from the Sharia, not from the mind!
Here, the research is from the perspective of the measure of good and evil that people are accustomed to, and not from the perspective of the action itself. The truth is that the actions that occur from a person are not described as good or evil in themselves, because they are merely actions that do not have the description of good or evil by virtue of their essence. Rather, their being good or evil comes based on considerations external to the actions themselves. For instance, killing a soul
__________
(544) The refutation of Western capitalist thought as a principle, civilization, and culture, from the publications of the Hizb al-Tahrir, Safar 1443 AH, September 2021 CE. pp. 26-33.
