Despotism or deviation. For Allah, who has prohibited alcohol and usury, is the One who commanded consultation and justice, and He is the One who made the pledge of allegiance of the Muslims a condition for the legitimacy of authority, and He is the One who prohibited the community from remaining silent in the face of oppression: "The best jihad is a word of truth in the presence of a tyrannical ruler." Thus, the reference of revelation is the safeguard in the Islamic governance system, protecting both the ruler and the community from the whims of deviant human legislation.
Critique of the "Sharia of Interest" and the supremacy of reason in politics
Here, it is necessary to address the intellectual trend that can be termed "the Sharia of rational interest" in politics, which is considered an extension of the modern Islamic liberalism. The essence of this trend is that it excludes the legal text when it contradicts what reason perceives as a temporal "interest," especially in matters of governance and administration. Its proponents claim that the Sharia came with universal values such as freedom and justice, and then left it to humans to choose any system and any laws that achieve these values, even if their details contradict the texts of revelation. Parliamentary democracy, in their view, is permissible – indeed, obligatory – because it, in their opinion, achieves justice and equality, even if this requires fully delegating the right to legislate to the people and their representatives. This trend, in fact, adopts the idea of the supremacy of human reason over the text, even if it disguises itself under the pretext of "renewing jurisprudence" or "prioritizing objectives over texts."
The most dangerous aspect of this approach is that it makes humans legislators instead of Allah without authorization. In a democratic system, for example, laws are enacted by parliamentary majorities based on the will of the voters, not on the revelation of the Lord of the worlds. This clearly means that humans permit what they wish and prohibit what they wish according to considerations of immediate interest. The positive laws that govern states today are neither divine revelations nor legal reasoning; rather, they are the outcomes of voting processes influenced by the pressures of lobbies and the interests of powerful groups. Some philosophers of positive law have acknowledged this and considered it a good thing (!) because "the law is made by the powerful to serve their interests." However, from the perspective of Sharia, this is pure whim and injustice: ﴾And do not follow the desires of those who do not know﴿ [al-Jathiya 18].
The supremacy of absolute human interest leads to several dangerous deviations in the realm of Sharia politics, including:
Legalizing governance by other than what Allah has revealed: considering it merely a political option unrelated to disbelief or faith. There have been fatwas justifying Muslims resorting to secular constitutions under the pretext of necessity and interest, as was done by what is called "the jurisprudence of minorities" in the West. This is a complete inversion of the concept of Sharia. They have made positive laws a rival to Sharia, and merely an allowable option for Muslims to adopt! Some have even issued fatwas permitting the assumption of judicial authority according to positive law while abandoning Sharia, arguing that establishing justice is a Sharia objective that can be achieved by any law! They overlook that justice is defined by the Creator of humanity, not by their limited intellect, and that adjudicating by other than Allah's Sharia in matters of the lawful and unlawful is the condemned ruling of other than what Allah has revealed, as stated in the Quran. Allah, Exalted is He, says: ﴾Do they seek the judgment of ignorance? And who is better in judgment than Allah for a people who are certain?﴿ [al-Maida 50]. Thus, labeling positive law as "the judgment of ignorance" in the Quran is sufficient to respond to those who promote it in the name of interest or modernity.
Diluting the established Sharia principles: where we see the advocates of "the Sharia of interest" dismissing many rulings under the pretext of changing times. There have emerged writings and fatwas that permit bank usury, justify the suspension of punishments, and call for the equality of inheritances,
