So how can we believe their claims of concern for human rights when they are the ones who have most squandered, neglected, and fought against them!
Western civilization has offered humanity nothing but exclusivity and unity, the relentless pursuit of money and fame, and the belief that technological advancement is the path to a prosperous life, a prosperity that is measured by the increasing wealth of the rich and the deepening poverty of the poor. This prosperity has enhanced the capacity of colonial powers to colonize and plunder resources, leaving the rest of the nations of the earth prey to ambitions and at the mercy of the emperors of dictatorship, extreme enslavement, and poor care!
The West can no longer hide its shame; it is the first to violate women's rights while it fills the world's ears with its defense of those rights, without offering a correct vision - or even any vision - of the role of women in society, family, and life. It suffices to see the extent of the wage gap between women and men in all Western democracies, and to witness the family disintegration and suffering endured by both women and men alike in those societies. The documented statistics resulting from the application of their systems are clear and reveal the scale of the tragedy that entrenches racism, the mistreatment of people with dark skin, France's war against the dress of Muslim women, and its prohibition of their education and work in many fields, the destruction of the family system, and the commodification of women for the promotion of products!
It suffices to see - for example - how France openly plunders the African continent to maintain its status among the great powers. Consider that in the last fifty years, out of a total of 70 coups that occurred in 26 African countries, 16 of those coups took place in its former colonies, accounting for 61% of the coups in Francophone Africa, allowing the governments ruling those countries to remain under France's grip, preventing any elected president from liberating those countries from its iron hold! Furthermore, it has tied fourteen African countries to the African franc, which is linked to the European euro, and it is the one that prints their currency. "Each of these countries is obligated to place 50% of its foreign reserves in the banks of France (which means that if any of these fourteen countries exports any goods to any destination, that destination pays this country the price of those goods in hard currency, and this country is then obligated to place 50% of that hard currency in the banks of France)," and for this reason, most of the money in the banks of France comes from its exploitation of Africa. If this country needs to withdraw a portion of its funds deposited in the banks of France, it must take it in the form of a loan with interest, and only France determines the maximum amount of money that this country can withdraw.
Moreover, France is the only country that has the right to exploit any natural resource that appears in these fourteen countries, meaning that no country among these fourteen has the right to think about selling any of its natural resources to any country other than France because it is obligated to sell it to France at the price set by France, except in one case only: if France refuses to purchase that natural resource from it. Any amount that France pays for this natural resource is considered revenue for that country, which enters it in hard currency, and thus 50% of this amount will go to the banks of France (which means that the natural resources present in these fourteen countries and the money that will be used to purchase these natural resources both belong to France), and any government tender held to implement any specific project in one of these fourteen countries will only allow French companies the first right to execute this project, even if there are other non-French companies that could carry it out.
