This project costs less than the French companies, and for this reason, most of the companies and banks dominating these countries are French companies and banks controlled by French individuals. (This means that the dominant companies in these fourteen countries in transportation, water, electricity, ports, and banks controlling the financial operations and others are all French under the control of French individuals) (82). France is plundering 30% of the uranium it uses in French nuclear reactors for energy production from Nigeria, while 90% of Nigerians are without electricity!
Year after year, France extracts from Africa more than five hundred billion dollars(83) annually, as stated by Dr. Arikana, the African Union envoy to the United States. This brings France's national output to about one and a half trillion annually, while it only produces perfumes and Airbus planes! Where do you get this from!
While Saudi Arabia, which produces ten million barrels of oil daily, barely reaches a national output of less than half a trillion annually! So reflect! About a year after he arrived at the Élysée Palace and took on the presidency of France, in 2013, former French President François Hollande said, "France, along with Europe, wishes to be more involved in the fate of Africa," meaning that his country still seeks to control the fate of Africans for a longer time. Years earlier, in March 2008, former French President Jacques Chirac stated, "Without Africa, France will slip into the ranks of third world countries,"
Their predecessor in this regard was their predecessor François Mitterrand, who said in 1957, before assuming the presidency: "Without Africa, France will have no history in the twenty-first century"(84).
This is the leadership of Western civilization over humanity, a leadership of colonization, wars, and plundering of resources, and the spread of poverty and conflict so that the Third World remains third, neither rising nor enjoying life!
And aside from the digression, as it is said: the reality speaks for itself, the nation has gone through a period in which it was oblivious to the greatness of its Sharia, and it became doubtful about its suitability for application, and it questioned whether the rectification of its affairs could only be achieved through the implementation of this Sharia, and it began to import constitutions and laws from the East and the West,
Like the she-camel in the desert, thirsting while water is carried on its back,
it has become necessary for us to rise and study with utmost seriousness and with a foundational study of the roots of Islamic legislation in an unprecedented manner, filled with analysis, grounding, contemplation, and comparison with the philosophy of secular legislation and with the philosophy of law. This has revealed truths that would not have easily become apparent to us, leading to this in-depth research, which I have chosen to present to the Islamic Ummah as it seeks its path to revival, so that it may walk that path with insight. And Allah is the Granter of success, and upon Him we rely.
Thaer Salama, Abu Malik, on the fourteenth of May 2020, corresponding to the twentieth of Ramadan 1441 AH.

__________
(82) From an article by the writer Muhammad al-Maghribi.
(83) Dr. Arikana - FRANCE STEALS $500 BILLION FROM AFRICA VIA “Pact For The Continuation of Colonisation.
(84) "France Africa".. How France has been plundering Africa's resources for more than half a century? Aed Amira, and Hafsa Joudah, Noon Post. And translated: 14 African countries obligated to pay taxes to France, Sasa Post, Muhammad Abdel Moneim. And the last hour│Libya.. A French-Italian debate, YouTube. And the greatness of Europe built on the organized plundering of Africa Mallence Bart-Williams, Sierra Leonean-German YouTube. Africa must be liberated from you, Mr. Macron. YouTube.
