Ibn Taymiyyah in Majmu' al-Fatawa, and in the explanations of the fundamentals, said: "There is no ruling for things before the Sharia, … whoever does not agree with the Mu'tazila on the good and the bad … then the actions of rational beings have no ruling before the arrival of the Sharia," ended.
And the Lord of the worlds, Exalted is He, clarifies in various places in the Qur'an that our existence in this world, and the creation of death and life, is only to test which of us is best in deeds; and for an action to be good, it must be sincere in intention for Allah, and it must be in accordance with the Sharia, derived from the Sharia. This is why the Imams of the Salaf (may Allah have mercy on them) used to combine these two principles, as al-Fudayl ibn 'Iyad said regarding the verse ﴾ لِيَبْلُوَكُمْ أَيُّكُمْ أَحْسَنُ عَمَلاً ﴿: "He said: It must be sincere and correct. It was said: O Abu Ali, what is sincere and correct? He said: If the action is correct but not sincere, it will not be accepted; and if it is sincere but not correct, it will not be accepted, until it is both sincere and correct. The sincere is that it is for Allah, and the correct is that it is in accordance with the Sunnah." The test and trial become impossible if there is no evidence by which the doer can refer to their action to make it good, which necessitates the preservation of the Sharia that contains the evidence for every obligatory action.
Among the implications of obligation is that Allah, the Exalted, promised to hold accountable for the weight of an atom of action, as He said: ﴾ فَمَن يَعْمَلْ مِثْقَالَ ذَرَّةٍ خَيْرًا يَرَهُ وَمَن يَعْمَلْ مِثْقَالَ ذَرَّةٍ شَرًّا يَرَهُ ﴿, and this verse necessitates that there be a warning regarding the weight of an atom of action, which is based on revelation, so that one may be held accountable based on it. It also necessitates that the description of the weight of an atom of action as good or bad is to Allah, the Exalted, and one will be held accountable for it! The ruling of pure reason is not called a legal ruling, nor does Allah hold one accountable for opposing the opinion or judgment of a certain person in a legal matter! These verses are clear and decisive in encompassing the obligation to detail that reaches the weight of an atom of action and above it, (that is, legislation is comprehensive and vast, containing commands and prohibitions related to every human issue until the Day of Judgment, which involves obligation), and it also necessitates the preservation of the evidences of the Sharia and its signs necessary for deriving its rulings and acting upon them, so that the doer sees the best of what they have done or its evil.
And Allah, the Exalted, did not leave people without guidance, that is, without command or prohibition, nor in a single matter for which they will be held accountable, as He said: ﴾ أَيَحْسَبُ الْإِنسَانُ أَن يُتْرَكَ سُدًى ﴿. If any matter were devoid of command or prohibition, it would be established that the human being was left without guidance in it, and it would not be possible to hold them accountable for doing it in any form, as it would not have a description of good or evil when devoid of the command of revelation, thus accountability would not be valid upon it. All of this contradicts the definitive verses that establish the existence of commands and prohibitions in every matter, and the existence of accountability for the weight of an atom of action, and the description of that weight of an atom as good or bad based on its reference to revelation. Revelation has permitted some commands and prohibitions to be based on conjecture in their establishment or indication, and made them part of the religion, so the infiltration of conjecture into their establishment does not remove them from the description of religion. For example, if two jurists differ, and one derives from the legal evidences that touching a woman does not nullify the ablution, then his ruling is legal, and it is part of the religion. If the other derives from the same legal evidences the opposite ruling, that touching nullifies the ablution, then his ruling is also legal. The first worships Allah based on what he believes to be the ruling of the Sharia in the matter, just as the second does. Both found a command and prohibition related to the matter, and legal texts that can be understood in this way or that way - this is how the legislator intended some of his legal texts to be multifaceted and open to understanding in more than one way - so the jurist exercised his intellect in understanding the texts and their implications, and reached to
