The religion itself is complete, in it is a clarification of everything. Indeed, Allah has perfected the religion and completed His favor upon the Muslims, and He has made the disbelievers despair of it. ﴾Today, those who disbelieve have despaired of your religion, so do not fear them but fear Me. Today, I have perfected for you your religion and completed My favor upon you and have chosen for you Islam as your religion.﴿ [al-Ma'idah 3]. And when Allah was pleased for us to have Islam as our religion, He promised - and His promise is true - that He would not accept from anyone a religion other than Islam, and that in the Hereafter, they would be among the losers. Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And whoever seeks a religion other than Islam, it will not be accepted from him, and he, in the Hereafter, will be among the losers.﴿ [Al-Imran 85]. This indicates that Allah, Exalted is He, will not accept from any human a religion (creed and law, that is, a system of life) except Islam.
And He completed the legislation, leaving nothing equivalent to the weight of an atom of human action without establishing a ruling that clarifies good from evil, making it an obligatory duty to follow. Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Does man think that he will be left neglected?﴿ meaning without command or prohibition in any of his affairs. And Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾So whoever does an atom's weight of good will see it, and whoever does an atom's weight of evil will see it﴿ [Az-Zalzalah 7-8]. Therefore, it is necessary to have a clarification from revelation that distinguishes good from evil in any action so that accountability can be based upon it,
﴾And We have sent down to you the Book as a clarification for all things and as guidance and mercy and good tidings for the Muslims﴿ ﴾89 An-Nahl﴿, ﴾And whatever you differ in, its ruling is to Allah﴿ ﴾10 Ash-Shura﴿, and He said: ﴾So if you disagree about anything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger﴿ ﴾59 An-Nisa﴿. The religion itself is firmly based on revelation through evidence, for Allah, Exalted is He, commands us to refer any dispute to Allah and His Messenger, that is, to the Book and the Sunnah. Therefore, there must be a ruling for it in the Book and the Sunnah, and since Allah, Exalted is He, restricts the right to legislate to Himself alone, whatever differences arise in anything, its ruling is to Allah, Exalted is He; thus, He must have clarified His ruling for us in the Book and the Sunnah!
These terms have come in general forms, ﴾and what﴿, ﴾of anything﴿, ﴾for everything﴿, ﴾in anything﴿, and all of them indicate generality, meaning they encompass every incident with a ruling that defines the position regarding it.
It is not permissible in Sharia for there to be an action of a servant that lacks evidence or a sign indicating its ruling; due to the general statement: ﴾A clarification for everything﴿ and the explicit text that Allah has completed this religion. If it is claimed that some occurrences are devoid of a legal ruling, in the sense that there are some actions of the servants that the Sharia has completely neglected, such that it has not established evidence or provided a sign to alert the obligated person to its purpose, then claiming this means that there is something that the Book has not clarified, and that this religion has not been completed by Allah, Exalted is He, evidenced by the existence of an action whose ruling has not been mentioned(129). This would imply a deficient religion, which contradicts the text of the Qur'an; thus, it is a false claim(130). One of the implications of the truth of these verses is the preservation of the Qur'an and the Sunnah with all the evidence they contain for legislation in a manner that enables the jurist to reach a legal ruling derived from revelation, which he is most certain is the ruling of the Legislator. The lack of preservation necessitates the loss of clarification or explanation!
It is without a doubt that Allah, Exalted is He, has revealed the Book and the Sunnah so that people may refer to them in all matters of their affairs, and resolve their differences through them, and He judges between them in every incident and dispute. Based on this, they will be held accountable in this world and the Hereafter, and on this basis, their adherence to the rulings of Islam and their distinction in its ranks will be determined, and they will be rewarded or punished. For if those rulings were to disappear,
__________
(129) See the section: There is no legislative vacuum, ﴾Today I have perfected for you your religion﴿.
(130) See Islamic Personality, Volume Three: (Usul al-Fiqh) by Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani.
