Before it reaches you in the present era, does it have any meaning? And can you be held accountable for not adhering to it? Does its loss not imply introducing injustice where I intended to establish justice? Does it not mean establishing a proof against people who received it and others who lost it and did not receive it? Does it not mean that the affairs of those who did not receive it will not be governed by the Sharia and its rulings? Does that not mean that those who did not receive it will not understand the intent of the Legislator, and the purpose for which the laws were sent will not be achieved through that loss and neglect? Does it not follow that general rulings from what the Sharia has revealed have lost what distinguishes and clarifies them from the Sunnah, thus becoming riddles that are incomprehensible, disconnected from reality, and impossible to apply? Consequently, the Qur'an loses its description as a clarification and explanation of everything! Therefore, the Sunnah must be preserved just as the Qur'an is preserved, so that together they complete God's blessing upon creation through the Islam that Allah is pleased with, and through them both, the religion can be established in the manner that Allah is pleased with for the entrusted nation!
Imam al-Shafi'i (may Allah be pleased with him) said: "I said: Is the obligation upon us and upon those before us and after us one? He said: Yes. I said: If that is an obligation upon us to follow the command of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him), should we not surround it when he imposes something upon us: has he not indicated to us the matter that is taken as his obligation? He said: Yes. I said: Do you find a way to fulfill Allah's obligation in following the commands of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) or anyone before you or after you who did not witness the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) except through the report about the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him)? And in that I do not take it except by report, what indicates to me that Allah has made it obligatory upon me to accept from the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him)"(131).
Indeed, Allah (Exalted is He) has revealed the religion of Islam for all people(132), and He did not limit the message to those who lived in the era of Prophethood. Whatever was revealed by inspiration in terms of belief, legislation, stories, and addresses is directed to all people, and it is aimed at all of humanity from the time of the Prophet's mission (peace and blessings be upon him) until the Day of Judgment. Allah (Exalted is He) said: ﴾And We have not sent you except as a messenger to all mankind, a bearer of good tidings and a warner, but most of the people do not know﴿ [34:28]. And He, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Say, "O mankind, indeed I am the Messenger of Allah to you all, to whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. There is no deity except Him. He gives life and causes death. So believe in Allah and His Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, who believes in Allah and His words. And follow him that you may be guided﴿ [7:158](133). This is a message directed to all people with His saying: ﴾Say, "O mankind"﴿, so everyone who is referred to as people since this comprehensive address was revealed until the Day of Judgment, the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) is sent to them. This generality is confirmed by His saying: ﴾Indeed, I am the Messenger of Allah to you all﴿, and He used the term ﴾Indeed, I﴿ to emphasize the statement, considering that among the addressed are...
__________
(131) Al-Um, vol. 7, p. 251, or Jam' al-Ilm by al-Shafi'i, pp. 21-22, The Authority of the Sunnah, Dr. Abdul Ghani Abdul Khaliq, Dar Al-Alamiya for Islamic Book/World Institute for Islamic Thought. 1995 edition, pp. 262-263.
(132) Imam Ibn Hazm said in his book Al-Ihkam, vol. 1, p. 97: about the intended meaning of the return in His saying: ﴾O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you. And if you disagree over anything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger if you should believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is the best [way] and best in result﴿ [4:59]: "The proof that the intended return is only to the Qur'an and the report from the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) is that the Ummah is unanimous that this address is directed to us and to everyone who is created and has their soul formed in their body until the Day of Judgment, from the jinn and mankind, just as it was directed to those who were in the time of the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) and to everyone who came after him and before us, and there is no difference." The Authority of the Sunnah, Dr. Abdul Ghani Abdul Khaliq, Dar Al-Alamiya for Islamic Book/World Institute for Islamic Thought. 1995 edition, p. 263.
(133) Tafsir al-Alusi, al-Razi, Ibn Ashur, Thoughts of al-Sharawi. Dr. Fadl al-Samarrai said: "These attributes were mentioned to remind the Jews and admonish them as they denied the Prophethood of Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) and claimed that there would be no Messenger after Moses, and they found Muhammad's call to be immense, believing that Moses had no equal in a Messenger. So Allah reminded them that He alone is the Owner of the heavens and the earth, and He is the Bestower of virtues, so it is not extraordinary for Him to send one Messenger and then another, for the dominion is in His hands. In mentioning life and death, there is a reminder to them that Allah revives a Sharia and revives another, so do not be astonished at the mention of these attributes in this context because the story is greater."
