The subjugation of the intellect to desires, interests, and bias: ... 339
The limitations of the intellect in perceiving consequences and outcomes (temporal inadequacy): ... 341
The limitations of the mind in terms of place (environment and culture): ... 343
The limited understanding of the human mind regarding reality and its complexities: ... 344
Ignorance of the true nature of man and the purposes of his existence: ... 346
Society should not be a field for legislative experiments: ... 349
The necessity for legislation to be stable and applicable to all times and places: ... 349
The problem of conflicting objectives and interests: ... 349
The need for legislative integration across various aspects of life: ... 349
The rooting from the philosophy of law: ... 349
Human need for legislation and a system of life: concepts about things, and concepts about life ... 351
To ensure the validity of legislation and its suitability for organizing human life, we examine the issue from seven angles: ... 353
The determinants and characteristics that guarantee the validity of legislation, which must be possessed by the legislator: ... 353
The determinants and characteristics that ensure the validity of legislation, which must be possessed by the legislator, related to understanding reality and the characteristics that pertain to the nature of the ruling: ... 356
The determinants that guarantee the validity of legislation, which relate to the application of rulings in life ... 360
Objectives and goals of legislation and the enactment of laws must be clarified before answering the question: Who has the right to legislate? ... 361
What are the criteria that should be available to judge the outcome of legislation as correct or incorrect? As good or corrupt? ... 367
Probabilistic and necessary influences on behavior: ... 370
The refutation of the ability of knowledge to determine legislation: Errors of psychology and sociology methodologically: ... 374
Falsifying knowledge, or silencing its voice, as an example: ... 378
Deadly scientific errors have been the basis for laws and rulings for decades in the most advanced Western countries, leading to catastrophic results! ... 380
The use of laws to generate profits as an example ... 381
Essential criteria when enacting laws: ... 383
The disparity of minds in perceiving truths and legislations: ... 385
How secularism stumbled in addressing human problems? ... 386
The angles and considerations that must be examined when answering the question: who has the right to legislate? ... 390
The angle of goodness and badness: ... 390
The angle of good and evil: ... 394
The angle of reward and punishment: ... 397
