The legal evidences (adillah shar'iyya) are the foundations of legal rulings (ahkam shar'iyya), just as the foundations of religion (din) are like beliefs (aqa'id) in every respect; they are definitive (qat'iyya) and not speculative (zhanniyya). All the foundations of the Sharia (sharia), whether they are the foundations of religion or the foundations of rulings, which are the legal evidences, must be definitive and cannot be speculative; due to His saying, ﴾And do not follow that of which you have no knowledge﴿ and His saying: ﴾And most of them follow not except assumption. Indeed, assumption avails not against the truth at all﴿. The majority of scholars have stated that the foundations of rulings must be definitive. Al-Hafiz al-Mujtahid Abu Ishaq Ibrahim ibn Musa al-Lakhmi al-Gharnati, known as al-Shatibi, stated in his book al-Muwafaqat: "The principles of jurisprudence (usul al-fiqh) in religion are definitive and not speculative, and the evidence for that is that they relate to the universals of the Sharia, and whatever is thus is definitive." He said: "If it were permissible for speculation to be attached to the universals of the Sharia, it would be permissible for it to be attached to the foundation of the Sharia; because it is the first universal, and that is not permissible." He said: "If it were permissible to make the speculative a foundation in the principles of jurisprudence, it would be permissible to make it a foundation in the principles of religion, which is not the case by consensus. Thus, here too; because the relationship of the principles of jurisprudence to the foundation of the Sharia is like the relationship of the principles of religion." He also said: "Some have said that there is no way to establish the foundations of the Sharia through speculation; because it is legislation, and we have not been commanded to follow speculation except in the branches."(173) He said: "The foundation, in any case, must be something that is definitively established; because if it were speculative, the possibility of disagreement would arise, and such a thing cannot be made a foundation in religion."
Imam Jamal al-Din Abdul Rahim al-Asnawi said in his book Nihayat al-Su'al when discussing the indication of (if'al) in terms of the fact that speculative evidence is not considered, he said: "As for the singular reports (akhbar al-ahad), they are invalid; because the narration of singular reports, if it provides anything, it only provides speculation, and the legislator has only permitted speculation in practical matters, which are the branches, not in scientific matters such as the principles of religion, and likewise the principles of jurisprudence, as conveyed by al-Anbari, the commentator on al-Burhan, from all the scholars."(174)
__________
(173) Al-Muwafaqat. Al-Shatibi. Commentary by Sheikh Abdullah Daraz 1/29-31
(174) Islamic Personality, Volume Three: (Principles of Jurisprudence) by Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani, 60-61
