(Statistics from the Center for Islamic Legislation Studies for the year 2018)
Serious repercussions: The fatwa from Al-Azhar University in 2019: "Fatwas for minorities that permit usury weaken the fundamentals and open the door to tampering with the Sharia."
Flimsy arguments: "Protecting the family from deviation" has no direct relation to owning a home versus continuing to rent, in addition to the responsibility of parents for upbringing! It is not permissible to commit a definitive prohibition, as Allah, Exalted is He, says: ﴾And whoever fears Allah, He will make for him a way out﴿ [al-Talaq 2]. Moreover, more than 15 European countries at the time these fatwas were issued provide interest-free financing, and also, the legal necessity is not "societal" but rather an individual necessity like eating carrion, and thus the benefit here is limited to individuals, not a public interest, as evidenced by the fact that millions of Muslims in the West refrained from owning homes through usury!
While there has been no detailed legal evidence permitting usury on the grounds of the necessity of not paying high rent, they confused true necessity with "social circumstance," which indicates the politicization of rulings and a slip towards desires. This ijtihad (independent juristic reasoning) has proven to be a dangerous slip, as it opened the door to the proliferation of usurious transactions among Muslims, and the matter expanded from the need for housing to the needs of luxuries! Although they attempted to regulate it with conditions. However, it is an example of how the benefit (owning a house) was prioritized over a prohibited legal principle (usury) by interpreting necessity or need. The truth is that many scholars rejected this fatwa and believed that a Muslim can rent and there is no necessity to fall into explicit usury, for the bank that will approve the buyer's ability to own a house after undergoing an extensive study by the bank proving their capability will only grant that approval if they are financially capable, and thus they are undoubtedly able to continue paying rent! The result: those who adhered to this concession expanded over time, until it became a general rule for some: "What is forbidden for minorities becomes permissible if it is difficult for them, taking into account the benefit!" This is a dangerous confusion and deviation.
Secondly: Changing the rulings on zakat
The issued fatwa: Permitting the payment of zakat (almsgiving) to Western countries (to fund their public projects) instead of giving it directly to poor Muslims.
Source: Decision of the European Council for Fatwa (No. 12/2003):
"It is permissible to allocate zakat to Western countries to fund social services (schools, hospitals) that benefit Muslims, as an alternative to distributing it directly to the poor."
Contradiction with definitive texts:
