The meaning is that granting humans legislative authority – that is, allowing them to permit and prohibit – is a form of deification and worship apart from Allah, even if it is not accompanied by prostration or rituals.
From this, the participation of a Muslim in Western elections, even with the intention of reform, is considered an implicit authorization and practical agreement to a system that makes humans legislators alongside Allah, or without Allah, and this is a form of associating partners (shirk) in governance. In fact, it is – in its constitutional form – more severe and explicit than merely imitating an unjust ruler, because it makes legislation itself one of the rights acquired by citizens and representatives through popular delegation, which is not befitting of the religion of monotheism and does not leave the Sharia any authority over the people.
Therefore, a Muslim who understands this meaning is not permitted to participate in this system, neither by running for office nor by voting, for in doing so, they would have participated in the deification of others besides Allah, acknowledged the rule of tyranny, and assisted in legislating without what Allah has revealed.
The prohibition of ruling by other than what Allah has revealed, and the prohibition of enabling it through voting or participation:
Ruling by other than what Allah has revealed is categorically prohibited in Islam, and Allah, Exalted is He, has made it one of the characteristics of disbelievers, oppressors, and corruptors in three consecutive verses from Surah Al-Ma'idah, depending on the state of the doer. Allah says: ﴾And whoever does not judge by what Allah has revealed – it is they who are the disbelievers﴿ [Al-Ma'idah: 44], ﴾... it is they who are the oppressors﴿ [Al-Ma'idah: 45], ﴾... it is they who are the corrupt﴿ [Al-Ma'idah: 47]. These are decisive texts condemning those who rule by other than Allah's law, or who are satisfied with it, or who alter it; and what is more dangerous is what is mentioned in Allah's saying:
﴾Have you not seen those who claim to believe in what has been revealed to you and what was revealed before you? They wish to refer legislation to Taghut (tyranny), while they were commanded to disbelieve in it. And Satan wishes to lead them far astray﴿ [An-Nisa: 60]. The point of evidence: This verse clearly indicates that the mere desire to refer to Taghut – that is, to other than Allah's law – undermines the claim of faith. Allah has made their faith merely a "claim," because the desire to refer to other than what Allah has revealed negates the very essence of submission to the law. So how about one who wishes to make Taghut a legislator and then elects and delegates it to legislate man-made laws on their behalf in parliament?! This act is further from faith!
Indeed, Allah has called the laws that contradict His Sharia "the judgment of ignorance," saying: ﴾Do they seek the judgment of ignorance? And who is better than Allah in judgment for a people who are certain?﴿ [Al-Ma'idah: 50]. The point of evidence: Any legislation not based on the revelation of Allah is considered part of the judgment of ignorance, and participating in the political system that produces this judgment and enables it is participation in its glorification and acceptance, while the believer is commanded to reject it and disbelieve in it.
Similarly, Allah says: ﴾And He does not share His judgment with anyone﴿ [Al-Kahf: 26]. The point of evidence: Allah, Exalted is He, has emphatically denied that anyone should share with Him in His judgment, and whoever participates in electing a human legislator, or in a system that makes legislation the prerogative of parliament, has made a partner for Him in a right that is exclusive to Allah, and this is the essence of shirk in governance.
