But Allah has even prohibited obedience to human legislators in permitting the unlawful and forbidding the lawful, as He said: ﴾O you who have believed, do not follow the footsteps of Satan. And whoever follows the footsteps of Satan - indeed, he enjoins immorality and wrongdoing﴿ [al-Nūr: 21]. So what about someone who grants a secular legislator the authority to enact laws that permit wrongdoing and obligate people to adhere to them in the name of civil law? Isn't this one of the greatest forms of following the footsteps of Satan?!
Allah has linked faith with referring to His law alone, as He said: ﴾But no, by your Lord, they will not believe until they make you judge concerning that over which they dispute among themselves, and then find within themselves no discomfort from what you have judged and submit in [full, willing] submission﴿ [al-Nisa: 65]. The point of evidence is that true faith cannot be established except through the judgment of the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him) – that is, his Sunnah and Sharia – and referring to others contradicts the essence of faith.
The legal ruling: Participation in parliamentary elections under systems that make legislation a human right through "the general will" or "the secular constitution" is a form of submission to tyranny (taghut), and indeed a means of empowering it and consenting to its legislation. It is an explicit participation in a system that claims the right to enact laws in place of Allah, which contradicts the essence of faith, and may constitute practical polytheism (shirk) or greater, depending on belief and intentions.
And the believer is commanded to disbelieve in the tyrant (taghut): ﴾So whoever disbelieves in the tyrant and believes in Allah has certainly grasped the firmest handhold﴿ [al-Baqarah: 256],
Participation in elections means assisting the disbeliever in falsehood
﴾And do not cooperate in sin and aggression﴿ [al-Ma'idah: 2] The point of evidence: Elections in the West are based on a legislative democratic system, meaning that the participating representative legislates laws and permits prohibitions (such as fornication, usury, homosexuality...) and suspends the law of Allah. Thus, participating in his selection or holding a position within it is assistance in sin and legislating other than what Allah has revealed.
Thirdly: Legislation is a right of Allah, and participation in a man-made legislative system is an implicit acknowledgment of this right belonging to others besides Allah.
Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Or do they have partners who have legislated for them in religion that which Allah has not permitted?﴿, the evidence is as follows: participating in elections means entering into a system that legislates without Allah, or assisting those who do so, and this is precisely what Allah has prohibited and called shirk (associating partners with Him).
It is not permissible to assume authority in a system that rules by other than what Allah has revealed:
Al-Bukhari narrated that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Whoever performs an action that is not in accordance with our command, it will be rejected."
Muslim narrated: "There is no obedience to a created being in disobedience to the Creator." The point of evidence: Political action in Western systems contradicts the command of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him), because its origin is not legitimate, but rather conventional, based on opposing the Sharia and legislating what contradicts it; thus, it cannot be considered among the actions of Muslims, but is rather rejected.
Fifth: The Fatwas of Prohibition from the Scholars:
