The response to their argument based on the story of Joseph (peace be upon him) and the accusation that he ruled by other than the Sharia of Allah:
Some of those who permit this cite Allah's statement about Joseph: ﴾Make me in charge of the storehouses of the land; indeed, I am a knowledgeable guardian﴿, interpreting it as Joseph taking a position in a system of disbelief (Pharaonic Egypt), thus allowing participation in systems of disbelief. They also refer to his resorting to the "law of the king": ﴾It was not for him to take his brother in the religion of the king, unless Allah willed﴿, interpreting it as Joseph using the king's (non-Islamic) law to detain his brother, thereby endorsing the application of the law of tyranny.
Their additional arguments: there is no evidence to restrict the ruling to Joseph, and the principle is that the conduct of the prophets is to be emulated. Furthermore, ruling by other than what Allah has revealed is a principle that does not differ among the Sharia, and Joseph affirmed: ﴾The judgment is only for Allah﴿, then he participated!
Detailed response:
Joseph is a prophet sent with a Sharia, and the mission of the prophets is to apply their Sharia in life and society if they are able to do so:
Allah says: ﴾Mankind was one community, and Allah sent prophets as bringers of good tidings and warners, and He sent down with them the Scripture in truth to judge between the people concerning that in which they differed﴿.
And He said: ﴾Indeed, We sent Our messengers with clear signs and sent down with them the Scripture and the balance that the people may maintain [their affairs] in justice﴿. The "lam" in His statement ﴾to judge between the people﴿, and in His statement: ﴾that the people may maintain [their affairs] in justice﴿ is a lam of purpose, so one of the most important overarching objectives of sending the prophets with good tidings and warnings is to judge by the Book among the people to rectify their livelihoods and establish truth and justice in every aspect of their lives!
This means that the mission of the prophets is to rule by the Sharia of Allah and to uphold justice through it, so it is neither rationally nor legally acceptable for the Prophet of Allah, Joseph, to legislate or implement a tyrannical law that contradicts the Sharia of Allah, and then Allah praises him for his actions without reproaching him or warning him of any shortcomings in this regard.
Joseph is an infallible prophet who receives revelation, and any interpretation that contradicts infallibility must be rejected!
And the law of those before us is not a law for us, assuming that their law permitted that, which it does not, as evidenced by the verses of Allah that we mentioned earlier regarding the mission of the prophets to judge by the Scriptures and to uphold justice among the people according to the Sharia of Allah, especially since our Sharia prohibits ruling by other than what Allah has revealed!
The actions of the prophets are infallible, and accusing them of violating the nature of their prophethood, which is based on judging by the Book as mentioned in the previously cited verses, contradicts infallibility. Therefore, if a speculative interpretation conflicts with the certainty of their infallibility, that interpretation is nullified and not acted upon because the evidence of infallibility is definitive.
