Joseph (Yusuf) (peace be upon him) who says to the people: ﴾Indeed, judgment belongs only to Allah. He has commanded that you not worship except Him. That is the correct religion, but most of the people do not know﴿ cannot contradict them in this and accept the rule of the various lords. In this regard, our master Shu'ayb (peace be upon him) says to his people whom he calls: ﴾And I do not intend to contradict you in that which I have forbidden you. I only intend to reform as much as I am able. And my success is not but through Allah. Upon Him I have relied, and to Him I turn﴿. The interpretation of this according to al-Qurtubi is: "It is not that I forbid you from something and then commit it, just as I do not abandon what I have commanded you."
Joseph was enabled by law and authority
Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And thus We established Joseph in the land, that he may settle therein wherever he wills﴿.
This Qur'anic text indicates complete empowerment and absolute authority in action, such that it cannot be claimed that he was compelled to enforce the law of the king or that he was under the authority of a system that prevented him from applying the law of Allah.
Joseph applied the law of Jacob in the incident of detention
Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And it was not for him to seize his brother in the religion of the king, unless Allah willed﴿.
This means that the law of the king prohibited the enslavement of the thief, while Joseph (peace be upon him) sought to issue a ruling from his brothers according to the law of Jacob ﴾Whoever is found in his possession, then that is his recompense﴿. This is the only detailed case mentioned in which our master Joseph (peace be upon him) ruled, and he acted according to the law of Allah, not the law of the king; rather, he contradicted the law of the king. Had it not been for the empowerment he had to do as he wished, he would not have been able to contradict the law of the king. Thus, this is evidence that he ruled by the law.
❖ Second: The indication of the sequence of titles (the Aziz → the King)
At the beginning of the story and during Joseph's dealings with his brothers, the Qur'an describes him as the Aziz.
After the arrival of his family and the elevation of his parents to the throne, the description changed to that he was given kingship: ﴾My Lord, indeed You have given me sovereignty﴿.
This progression indicates that Joseph became a person of high authority, possibly at the rank of a king, or fully delegated, which makes him free to apply whatever rulings he wishes.
❖ Third: Reflect on the logic of those praising Joseph for participating in the rule of the tyrant
How is it conceivable that Allah would send a prophet to a people, then empower him in the land, and make him possess authority, and then he does not apply the law of Allah, but rather rules the people by the laws of tyrants?
