Thus. In the hadith narrated by Jabir, he said: "The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said when the Negus died: 'Today a righteous man has died, so stand up and pray for your brother Ashamah.'" And in the hadith of Abu Huraira, it is reported "that the Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings be upon him) announced the death of the Negus, the king of Abyssinia, on the day he died." This indicates that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) was informed of the Negus's death and his Islam on the day of his death through revelation. The Prophet's (peace and blessings be upon him) statement to the Companions, as narrated by Jabir ibn Abdullah, "Today a righteous man has died," and his saying, "So stand up and pray for your brother Ashamah," indicates that they were not aware of his Islam, because if they had known of his Islam, there would have been no need for the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) to use such expressions as "a righteous man" and "your brother," as he did not use such expressions when calling them to pray for those among them who died.
4 – These hadiths indicate that the Negus had embraced Islam shortly before his death, but they do not specify when his Islam occurred. Their wording indicates that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) learned of his death and his Islam on the day he died through revelation, as we mentioned earlier, and there is no authentic report indicating that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) informed anyone of the Negus's Islam at any other time.
5 – These six hadiths do not indicate that the Negus whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) announced to the Companions and prayed the funeral prayer for was the same Negus who was the ruler of Abyssinia at the time of the Muslims' migration there. Nor do they indicate that he is the same Negus to whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) sent the letter inviting him to Islam, because the term "Negus" is not a proper name for a specific individual, but rather a title given to every ruler who governs Abyssinia, as mentioned by al-Nawawi in the twelfth volume of his book Sharh Sahih Muslim, and as noted by Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani in the third volume of his book Al-Isabah.
6 – It is mentioned in the twelfth volume of Sahih Muslim, in al-Nawawi's commentary, that the Negus to whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) sent the letter inviting him to Islam at the end of the sixth year of the Hijra, after returning from the Battle of Hudaybiyyah, is not the same Negus for whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) performed the funeral prayer. The text of the hadith states: "… from Anas that the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) wrote to Khosrow, to Caesar, to the Negus, and to every tyrant inviting them to Allah, the Exalted. And he is not the Negus for whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) prayed." From this hadith, it becomes clear that the Negus for whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) prayed is different from the Negus to whom the Muslims migrated to Abyssinia to live in his vicinity, and he is not the Negus to whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) sent a letter at the end of the sixth year inviting him to Islam, but rather he is the Negus who came to the throne after the death of the Negus to whom the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) sent a letter with Amr ibn Umayyah al-Damri inviting him to Islam, who did not respond to the Prophet's invitation and did not embrace Islam. Because if he had responded to the Prophet and embraced Islam, the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) would have informed the Companions of that, and he would have prayed for him, and Ja'far ibn Abi Talib and the emigrants with him would have known of his Islam, as they returned to the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) in the seventh year after the conquest of Khaybar, that is, after the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) sent the letter to the Negus. If he had embraced Islam, it would have had a significant impact and brought joy to the Muslims, especially after Allah granted them victory at Khaybar, and the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) would have given them glad tidings of his Islam, and he would not have limited his words upon Ja'far's arrival to: "I do not know which of them..."
