This Negus who embraced Islam had assumed kingship in the seventh year after the Hijrah, for the Prophet ﷺ had dispatched his envoys to kings and rulers—including the Negus—upon his return from the expedition of al-Ḥudaybiyyah, which took place in Dhu al-Qaʿdah, at the end of the sixth year. It follows, then, that the previous Negus died in the seventh year, and that the Negus who embraced Islam—and for whom the Prophet ﷺ offered the funeral prayer in absentia—came to power that same year. His death occurred before the conquest of Mecca, in the eighth year of the Hijrah, as stated by al-Bayhaqī in Dalā’il al-Nubuwwah. This means that the interval between his assumption of power, his acceptance of Islam, and his death was quite short. During that brief period, he embraced Islam in secret, and no one was aware of his conversion—not even the Prophet ﷺ. The Prophet was only informed of his death and his Islam through divine revelation on the day of his death, as indicated by the wording of the six hadiths recorded by al-Bukhārī regarding his passing. Because of the short time he lived as a Muslim before dying, he had no opportunity to learn the rulings of Islam. And the Prophet’s ﷺ unawareness of his conversion meant he did not send him any instructions regarding what he should observe or implement.
Thus, this case cannot serve as evidence for anyone who permits himself to participate in a system of disbelieving governance that rules by other than what Allah has revealed. Any claim to the contrary is invalid and refuted. Conclusion From all the above, it is clear that:
The Najāshī who accepted Islam and was prayed over by the Prophet ﷺ is not definitively proven to be the same ruler to whom the Muslims first migrated, or to whom the Prophet ﷺ sent his letter. The Islam of Najāshī likely occurred privately and late in his life. He did not have time, ability, or perhaps even awareness to implement Islamic rule.
The Prophet ﷺ did not approve of ruling by other than Allah’s law—his silence on Najāshī’s Islam until after his death is not an endorsement of his governance.
