al-Zailai in "Tabyin al-Haqaiq" (6/22) when quoting al-Kasani: "One commits the lesser of two harms in a state of necessity, if one cannot escape from both."
The Malikis: al-Qarafi in "al-Furuq" (4/204): "If a person is compelled to choose between two prohibitions, and he cannot avoid both, he must commit the one that is less harmful."
Al-Mawaq in "al-Taj wa al-Iklil" (8/218): "It is permissible to commit the lesser of two corruptions in a state of necessity, provided that one cannot escape from both corruptions together."
The Shafi'is: Imam al-Ghazali in "al-Mustasfa" (1/286): "If two corruptions conflict, and one must commit one of them, then one commits the lesser of the two."
Al-Suyuti in "al-Ashbah wa al-Nazair" (p. 117): "Rule: If two corruptions occur together, and one cannot escape from both, the lesser of the two is committed."
The Hanbalis: Ibn al-Qayyim in "I'lam al-Muwaqqi'in" (3/14): "The Sharia permits committing the lesser of two harms if one must choose one, and to avoid the greater of the two corruptions."
Al-Buhuti in "Kashaf al-Qina'" (6/298): "If one is compelled to commit one of the two corruptions, and he cannot avoid both, he commits the lesser of the two."
Secondly: Scholars' explanations of the condition
The meaning of "necessity":
Ibn Abidin in "Hashiyah" (5/45): "What is meant by necessity is that one fears for the destruction of oneself or a limb if he does not commit the prohibition."
Condition of "no escape": al-Qarafi in "Anwar al-Buroq" (4/200): "It is not permissible to commit the lesser of two harms except if it is impossible to escape from the harm entirely; if it is possible to escape from both harms together, it is not permissible to commit either."
Verification by Ibn Taymiyyah: in "Majmu' al-Fatawa" (20/58): "Whoever is compelled to commit prohibitions, he is permitted only what is absolutely necessary... If he can escape from both prohibitions together, he must do so."
Thirdly: Jurisprudential applications clarifying the condition
Does the condition apply?
Reason
Situation
Yes
He cannot escape from death or theft.
Theft under threat of weapon
No
He can abstain without harm (the condition is not met).
Participation in the ruling of a disbeliever
Yes
There is no choice but death or eating.
Eating carrion in the desert
