The balance in means (such as choosing the cleanest restaurant in non-Muslim lands), not in objectives (like abolishing the obligation of hijab).
The harm that is averted must be greater than the harm that is committed.
It should not lead to the neglect of a duty or the revival of a prohibition.
The theoretical foundation of the jurisprudence of balances among its proponents:
In the reasoning of some theorists of the jurisprudence of balances, that is, rational balances, they said: Aaron (peace be upon him) approved the worship of the calf!! And the balance, in their claim, necessitated that Aaron be content with the people worshiping the calf so that the community of believers would not be divided!!
Allah, Exalted is He, said in Surah Ta-Ha: ﴾He said, "O Aaron, what prevented you when you saw them go astray (92) from following me? Did you disobey my command?" (93) He said, "O son of my mother, do not seize me by my beard or by my head. Indeed, I feared that you would say, 'You caused a division among the Children of Israel and did not observe my word.' "﴿(94)
The people took these verses in isolation from the other verses that addressed the incident and extracted from them a dangerous ruling, which is what was previously mentioned about the approval of a noble prophet for the worship of the calf, because he prioritized it over the unity of the Children of Israel!
In the noble verses, we see what they did not see; in them is Aaron's statement to Moses (peace be upon them): ﴾You caused a division among the Children of Israel and did not observe my word.﴿ And Moses's statement to Aaron (peace be upon him): ﴾Did you not follow me? Did you disobey my command?﴿ It has been previously stated that Moses instructed Aaron (peace be upon him) saying: ﴾Replace me among my people and do good and do not follow the way of the corruptors.﴿ And in Surah Al-A'raf, he clarified that he did not approve of them but they weakened him and nearly killed him! ﴾He said, "O son of my mother, indeed the people have oppressed me and they were about to kill me. So do not gloat over me with the enemies and do not make me among the wrongdoing people."﴿ (150) Can it be imagined that they nearly killed him unless he was harshly denouncing their heinous act? Thus, we observe a dangerous point in their foundational reasoning for balances in their argument that they have taken a part of the incident and omitted it from the rest of the components of the picture presented in the Holy Qur'an, and this omission has led to an erroneous understanding that does not hold!
Professor Mahmoud Abdul Karim Hassan says: "Did Allah send the messengers and reveal the books except to be worshiped alone, and for the messengers and books to be a criterion between truth and falsehood, between faith and disbelief? Is there a sin and transgression, indeed disbelief, greater than worshiping others besides Allah and praying and prostrating to others than Allah, Exalted is He? And can one be considered a believer who is content with the worship of the calf? What unity is this for which the prophets sacrifice the creed of monotheism, while Allah, Exalted is He, says on the tongue of Moses: ﴾He said, 'My Lord, indeed I have no control except for myself and my brother, so separate between us and the corrupt people.'﴿ [And Aaron's statement: ﴾And do not make me among the wrongdoing people.﴿] And does anyone with even a little knowledge of Sharia and understanding of the creed not know that all the calls of the prophets necessitate that people be divided into two groups: the group of believers and the group of disbelievers? Do we not find this meaning in dozens, even hundreds, of verses in the Holy Qur'an? Allah, Exalted is He, said: ﴾And if Allah had willed, He would have made them one nation, but He admits whom He wills into His mercy, and the wrongdoers have no protector or helper.﴿
