﴾Indeed, there has been for you a good example in Abraham and those with him, when they said to their people, "Indeed, we are disassociated from you and from whatever you worship besides Allah. We have denied you, and there has appeared between us and you animosity and hatred forever until you believe in Allah alone."﴿ 4 الممتحنة
Thus, there are two nations: the believers who enter into the mercy of Allah, and the disbelievers who are unjust and excluded from this nation. How can it be that, according to the proponents of the jurisprudence of balances, unity is prioritized over faith, even on the basis of disbelief, while Allah, Exalted is He, says: ﴾And if it were not that mankind would become one nation, We would have made for those who disbelieve in the Most Merciful roofs of silver for their houses and stairways on which they ascend, and doors for their houses and couches on which they recline﴿. Did not the Qur'an distinguish between a father and his son based on belief? ﴾He said, "O Noah, indeed he is not of your family; indeed, his work was unrighteous. So do not ask Me that of which you have no knowledge. Indeed, I advise you lest you be among the ignorant"﴿.
"If a methodology such as this jurisprudence is based on this type of balancing, which affects the creed and allows for its concession or alteration in the name of the interests of whims that contradict dozens of verses, and even contradict the foundations upon which the edifice of creed stands, then what is it that the holder of this understanding or this statement would hesitate to change or concede?"
Representations of Methodological Errors in the Jurisprudence of Balancing (with Documented Examples)
Fatwa: The decision of the European Council for Fatwa (2001) permitting recourse to secular laws in family and inheritance matters in the West.
The document: "Seminar on the Rulings of Minorities" (Paris, 2001) - Resolution No. (3/12).
The justification mentioned: "A balance between the harm of resorting to tyranny (taghut) and the harm of the loss of the rights of Muslims in Western courts."
The Usuli Discussion:
Contradiction of the definitive text: ﴾Have you not seen those who claim to believe in what has been revealed to you and what was revealed before you, yet they wish to refer to Taghut (the tyrant) for judgment, while they have been commanded to disbelieve in it﴿.
The violation of the college officer: the alleged interest (maslaha) of preserving the rights of individuals is partial, while the harm (mafsada) of normalizing judgment by other than Allah is comprehensive and undermines a pillar of the religion.
The exceeding of the necessity principle: necessity does not permit resorting to the tyrant (taghut) except under coercion (like a captive forced to seek judgment), while choice is not a necessity.
The result: Western courts will not adjudicate disputes in a manner that grants rights regulated by the Sharia,
The following (and more) legal rulings will be violated:
A woman receives half of a man's wealth upon divorce (Divorce Settlement), contrary to the Sharia.
Children may be entrusted to a non-Muslim party.
