The one who agrees with him reassures the inquirer, even if he disagrees with the ruling, that Islam causes hardship and distress for people, and that it does not align with the times!
For example, the Tunisian system, in the past, prohibited chaste Muslim women from wearing the hijab, especially in schools, hospitals, and elsewhere. An inquirer comes to ask Islam about the ruling on a woman removing her hijab, instead of asking about the ruling on removing such systems! France imposes the same thing, and people consult the scholars of minority jurisprudence and balancing. Instead of issuing fatwas that utilize their societal weight and engage in civil disobedience that paralyzes life until their rights are recognized, they issue fatwas allowing the removal of the hijab and wearing swimsuits in swimming lessons!
For instance, Muslims are in distress due to their rulers plundering the resources of their countries and sharing the bread of their children with them. They then ask about the ruling on borrowing from usurious banks to build a house; does it take the ruling of necessity? Or, for example, the phenomenon of spinsterhood is rampant in societies, and marriage becomes one of the significant matters that most young people cannot afford. This creates a corrupt reality that encourages fornication; Islam is not responsible for such a reality, but secularism is. Thus, such a reality should not be taken as a source for thinking, leading to fatwas on temporary marriage and misyar marriage!
And when Muslims are asked about joint-stock companies, they are not asked whether Islam can say what the capitalist system says about joint-stock companies to be considered suitable for keeping up with the times. Instead, Muslims are asked what Islam's opinion is on joint-stock companies. The answer is to study the reality of joint-stock companies and to compare the reality of companies in Islam with this reality.
Similarly, regarding banks, Muslims are not asked whether Islam can say what the capitalist system says about their organization and the permissibility of usury in them with reasonable interest. Instead, Muslims are asked what Islam's opinion is on banks. The answer is that the reality of the problem in banks is that they primarily operate on usury in long-term and short-term loans, current accounts, and credits, among other things. They also transfer money from one country to another and safeguard deposits. As for transferring money and safeguarding deposits, it is permissible in Sharia whether for a fee or not. However, all usurious transactions are absolutely forbidden because Allah says: ﴾And He has forbidden usury﴿.
Thus, it is not permissible to take reality as a source for thinking; rather, it is a subject for thought so that the legal ruling can be applied to it, derived from the Book and the Sunnah and what they guide towards.
It is a grave danger for this nation not to realize that Islam refuses to take anything other than the Book and the Sunnah as a supreme reference that does not accept a partner in Islam, from which legal rulings are derived. After understanding the realities to which the ruling of the Sharia is to be applied, the evidence related to these realities is studied, and then the legal ruling is applied to these realities to provide the ruling of Sharia, not the ruling of reason, desire, or interest.
