Note: The table above illustrates how some trends of modern reform have slipped into methodological deviation, by ignoring the accumulated foundational controls and prioritizing subjective rational considerations. Abu al-Hasan al-Nadwi alerted to this meaning by saying: “Religion distinguishes between sound change and unsound change, between a destructive tendency and a constructive one.” al-maktaba.org. Not every change is welcomed unless it is regulated by the values and constants of religion.
In short, the efforts of the modern rationalist school - despite their reformist intentions - have led to a destabilization of trust in the traditional foundational reference and opened the door to various ideas claiming reform, most of which exceed the legal limits. This situation has resulted in a division in the intellectual arena.
Adaptation to nationalism, liberalism, and socialism in the thought of the school
Afghani and Abduh raised the slogan "religious reform is the path to social and political revival." To this end, they adopted - or at least responded to - the nationalist and liberal tendencies that swept the Islamic world in their era. Jamal al-Din al-Afghani was primarily an advocate of Islamic unity against colonialism, but he also supported national liberation movements. He participated in igniting the revolutionary spirit against the oppression of Khedive Ismail in Egypt and was considered "the spiritual father of Ahmad Urabi's revolution" in 1881. Al-Afghani aimed to revive the sense of national dignity in the face of foreign domination, (and the ideas of nationalism were newly introduced from the West, previously unknown in Islamic thought), and he saw Islam as a unifying force for the oppressed peoples that could be employed to unify their voices. However, the project of "Islamic unity" that he called for - that is, the unity of Muslims under one banner - took on a more practical political character than a spiritual one. He sought to bring together the Ottoman Sultan and the Iranian Shah, for example, to form an Islamic front against the West, and promoted the idea of establishing secret societies to resist the occupier. Ironically, he himself joined a Masonic lodge (the Eastern Star Lodge) in Cairo, where he pledged with the Crown Prince of Egypt (Khedive Tawfiq) to work towards a constitution and consultation, but this step later drew severe criticism against him (which will be detailed in the next section).
Muhammad Abduh, for his part, was more explicit in adopting some aspects of nationalist and liberal thought within an Islamic framework. He was an Egyptian Azharite, proud of his national identity, and believed that "reforming Islam (similar to Christian reform movements like Protestantism) is the way to the revival of the Egyptian and Arab nation and its liberation from colonialism." In other words, he placed religious renewal in the service of the national revival project. At the same time, he did not hesitate to draw inspiration from European liberal ideas in governance and administration. Abduh did not call for explicit secularism that completely separates religion from the state, but he distinguished between the spiritual function of religion and the management of the modern state. For example, he called for educational reform by separating religious education (Azharite) from modern civil education, to update general knowledge in Egypt. He also supported the establishment of consultative councils and a constitutional system. Even Lord Cromer (the British High Commissioner) exploited Muhammad Abduh's thought to modernize the institution of Sharia judiciary in Egypt along modern lines aljazeera.netaljazeera.net, leading to cooperations between Abduh and the British occupation in
