Or the public interest (maslaha), which goes back to the reformist Muslim jurists of the thirteenth century, as something believed to be able to surpass or even abrogate the Qur'an itself," we say to it: that the Qur'an and the Sunnah are not abrogated by rational interests at all among us, the Muslims.
The Sharia of Islam is God's eternal miracle, complete, comprehensive, and suitable for all times and places as it is, without change or alteration, neither in its foundations nor in its branches, and there is no "fixed and variable" in it, but all of it is fixed and connected to revelation. Any attempt to undermine it will end in failure and loss. History has proven this repeatedly; Islam remains resistant to dissolution or alteration, and whenever it is opposed, its roots grow stronger and the falsehood of what opposes it becomes evident to people. This global Islamic awakening in recent decades is nothing but evidence that humanity's longing for the justice of the Sharia and the guidance of revelation has not died, despite two centuries of secular dominance. We have no choice but to present our religion to people in its pure form as it was revealed by God: with its balanced methodology that achieves justice and the true, lenient Sharia without change, alteration, or distortion.
Let us beware – we Muslims – of being bitten from the same hole of manipulating religion twice. And let us be aware that any call to place "interest" or "reason" in opposition to the texts is nothing but a trap intended to shake our certainty in our religion; so that if we doubt one ruling, we will doubt others, and then the rulings of Islam will collapse one by one – and we seek refuge in Allah – and this is what we see in countries that have distanced themselves from the Sharia: the journey begins with the interpretation of a ruling and ends in atheism and hatred of religion altogether. Hence, the warning of the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) is true: "You will surely follow the ways of those before you, inch by inch," meaning we will imitate previous civilizations in their deviations even if they entered the hole of a lizard. And what is Western civilization today – with its deification of reason and desire – but the dark hole of the lizard that we are meant to enter behind them.
Finally, it must be noted that the falsehood claiming that "the implementation of the Sharia is a hindrance to reason and a restriction on thought" has been proven false during our research. The opposite is true: the implementation of the Sharia provides a solid framework for the mind to deduce and innovate safely, while following whims leads to the loss of direction and makes thought a prisoner of trends and desires. The mind in Islam is respected, but it is the mind of the obedient believer that operates within the framework of {God said and the Messenger said}. As for the unrestrained mind, it has no weight because it is prone to confusion and contradiction – as we have seen among the "rationalists" themselves.
We ask Allah, the Exalted, to return us to His religion in a beautiful manner, and to enlighten us about our steps so that we may walk on the straight path firmly. And we ask Him, Exalted is He, to unite the ranks of Muslim scholars on a sound methodology that combines understanding reality with the jurisprudence of the text, away from alteration and transformation, so that they may re-present the Sharia of Islam to the world as a saving and redeeming alternative from the turmoil and oppression it is entangled in. For by Allah, there is no way out for humanity – Muslims and non-Muslims – from their accumulated crises except by returning to the reference of divine revelation {from the Qur'an and Sunnah} to regulate the movement of their minds and wills towards truth and goodness.
And Allah, the Almighty, has spoken the truth, saying: ﴾So if there comes to you guidance from Me, then whoever follows My guidance will not go astray nor suffer ۝ And whoever turns away from My remembrance, indeed, he will have a depressed life﴿ [Ta-Ha: 123-124]. And He, Exalted is He, said: ﴾Indeed, this Qur'an guides to that which is most suitable﴿
