The introduction to the Prophet of Mercy (peace and blessings be upon him).
The term Ahl al-Sunnah wa al-Jama'ah in balance.
The Sunnah is the way of Islam in living.
The Taghut.
One civilization or a clash of civilizations?
A person cannot be righteous in any time or place except through Islam.
The political nature of Islam.
The caliphate and imamate in Islamic thought.
The clear proof that the Sunnah is revelation, that it is preserved, and that it is a proof and a fundamental source of the religion. (in Arabic and English).
The analytical intellectual methodology in the science of hadith: a simplified critical inductive study.
Merging Arab energy with Islamic energy as a path to the revival of Muslims.
Concepts on the path to resuming Islamic life.
The Hizb al-Tahrir and the obligation of jihad: necessary reflections.
The issue of the jurisprudence of adoption, obedience, accountability, and advice in party work.
Who ignited the fire of equations and physical laws and spread it in the real universe?
The concept of suspicion in the Noble Qur'an and its relation to certainty.
Concepts in creed: the decisive statement on the concept of faith in Sharia.
Concepts in creed: evidence of belief,
Building the Islamic personality.
Ijtihad and taqlid: a precise understanding of ijtihad and taqlid is the key to the revival of the Ummah.
The miracle of Islamic legislation: characteristics and components.
From the law of Allah to the law of interest: the roots of modern liberal Islam and its role in producing "the jurisprudence of minorities". (in Arabic and English).
Refuting the jurisprudence of minorities and clarifying its dangers to Muslim minorities. (in Arabic and English).
Establishing the Islamic state in light of the law of causality, divine laws, and historical laws.
Did the Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) specify a method for establishing the Islamic state?
Searching for Allah in a world filled with pain and wars. (in Arabic and English).
A strategic study of the disintegration of the Zionist entity: internal collapse within 6 years (2024).
The inevitable fall of the United States: a comprehensive analytical study (2024).
The theory of linguistic zero: its foundations, applications, and comparison with the operator theory.
