As for technological and urban advancement, it does not make a person independent of knowing the ruling on eating pork compared to the ruling on eating beef, nor does it allow the use of a fork and knife with pork to be made permissible after it was prohibited!
And if he travels by airplane, or travels on the back of a mule, he will need food and drink, and he has the concession to shorten the prayer and break the fast, and the human soul remains! There are no rulings for those who live in villages and use horses, mules, and donkeys in their affairs other than those that pertain to those who travel in a luxurious car!
And as for the societal aspect, the selection of the ruler, the accountability of the ruler, the establishment of political parties, the dominance of a set of concepts and convictions upon which society is based in the form of societal customs, the responsibilities of the welfare state, the investment of natural resources, and similar rulings that are characterized by stability, because Islam has provided clear, comprehensive, and detailed rulings in these matters that do not require change. For example, Islam does not tolerate the usurpation of power or the prevention of consultation (shura), nor does it tolerate the duty of defense and fighting against the occupying colonizer, and so on!
The limitations of human intellect as a source of legislation, and its inherent deficiencies:
We have thus established the necessity of legislation for life, and the need for legislation to possess certain characteristics. Is the intellect capable of producing such legislation that meets these necessary conditions, through which the goals and objectives and the solutions that legislation must achieve can be realized?
To begin with, despite the immense capabilities of the mind in innovation and thinking, it is limited by natural boundaries that prevent it from producing legislation characterized by certain attributes, no matter how much effort it exerts. Perhaps the most prominent aspects of the inherent shortcomings of the mind are as follows:
Relativity and Subjectivity:
The most important related ideas:
The relativity of the mind and the differences in its perceptions among individuals and societies
People vary in their understanding and assessment of interests and harm, which leads to fundamental differences in their perspectives on values and rulings.
The absence of a fixed objective standard in rational legislation
The human intellect is influenced by the environment, affiliations, and circumstances, and it does not possess an absolute standard by which to issue unified or binding judgments.
The difference of minds in understanding major concepts (such as justice, freedom, and public interest (maslaha))
What one nation sees as justice, another may see as oppression, which leads to a disturbance of fundamental concepts in the absence of a stable reference point.
The inability to know how to practically realize values.
