Knowledge – that is, the principles of jurisprudence (usul al-fiqh) – is only utilized in conjunction with textual evidence, and the mainstay is indeed the textual evidence, for it is the foundation... Thus, the primary reliance is on the legal evidences. "Al-Muwafaqat, vol. 3, p. 53." And Imam al-Izz ibn Abd al-Salam said in Qawaid al-Ahkam fi Masalih al-Anam, vol. 1, p. 16: "Rational improvement and disapproval have no place in legal rulings, for the ruler is Allah, not reason. If reason had independence in improvement and prohibition, there would have been no need for the sending of messengers." This is a decisive statement and a compelling proof. Al-Amidi said in al-Ihkam fi Usul al-Ahkam, vol. 1, p. 105: "Reason does not impose anything upon Allah nor prohibit anything from Him, and the ruler in the Sharia is the Sharia, not reason." And the scholar Ibn Taymiyyah said in Majmu' al-Fatawa, and in the explanations of the principles: "There is no ruling for things before the Sharia... Whoever does not agree with the Mu'tazila on improvement and disapproval... the actions of rational beings have no ruling before the arrival of the Sharia," ended.
Limiting warning to revelation:
Indeed, the Lord of the worlds, Exalted is He, commanded us to follow the Sharia alone, as He, the Exalted, said: ﴾And whatever the Messenger has given you, take it; and what he has forbidden you, refrain from it. And fear Allah; indeed, Allah is severe in punishment﴿ [Al-Hashr 7], ﴾O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you. And if you disagree over anything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger if you should believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is the best [way] and best in result﴿ [An-Nisa 59], ﴾So he neither believed nor prayed (31) But he denied and turned away (32) Then he went to his people swaggering (33) Woe to you, and woe! (34) Then woe to you, and woe! (35) Does man think he will be left neglected?﴿ [Al-Qiyama 36] ﴾Indeed, the judgment is only for Allah﴿ [Al-An'am 57, Yusuf 40, Yusuf 67], ﴾And whatever you disagree over, its ruling is to Allah. That is Allah, my Lord; upon Him I have relied, and to Him I turn﴿ [Ash-Shura 10].
Warning can only be through revelation, exclusively, and there is a definitive prohibition against following what has been legislated outside of it. Thus, the preservation of revelation is necessary to establish the warning that serves as proof for creation, to cut off the path to the laws of others, and to enable His servants not to follow anyone besides the revelation: ﴾Follow what has been revealed to you from your Lord﴿ [Al-An'am 106], ﴾Follow what has been sent down to you from your Lord and do not follow other than Him as allies. Little do you remember﴿ [Al-A'raf 3], ﴾Say, "I only warn you by revelation." And the deaf do not hear the call when they are warned﴿ [Al-Anbiya 45], and revelation is the Book and the Sunnah. Revelation is a complete proof and a comprehensive warning. Now that revelation has ceased, there is no prophet or messenger after Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) to whom anything new or "lost – they claim –" would be revealed regarding any new legislation, as Allah, the Exalted, said: ﴾What...
