Renting wombs and manipulating lineage may be viewed as a "humanitarian medical solution" for infertility, or a source of income for poor women, but it is, in terms of Islamic law, a corruption of the utmost danger; and Allah, Exalted is He, says: ﴾Call them by [the names of] their fathers; that is more just in the sight of Allah﴿.
The permissibility of relationships outside the framework of marriage is considered in Western systems a psychological benefit and an individual right, but in the balance of Sharia, it is a corruption of honor, a destruction of the family, an encouragement of fornication, and a loss of lineage. Therefore, the law has prohibited it and made fornication one of the major sins, for Allah said: ﴾And do not approach fornication; indeed, it is ever an immorality and is evil as a way﴿.
Euthanasia is sometimes presented as a humanitarian interest to alleviate pain, or as an individual's right to end their life, but in legal terms, it is an aggression against the self, a departure from the station of servitude, and a transgression against God's right over life and death. It is indeed a transgression against the life that Allah has mandated to be preserved, ﴾And do not kill the soul which Allah has forbidden, except by right﴿.
The permissibility of changing one's gender or manipulating one's sexual identity is seen by some as a psychological individual interest, but in the balance of Islamic law, it is an infringement upon the natural disposition (fitra) that Allah has created people upon, ﴾the fitra of Allah upon which He has created people﴿. It has been reported in the hadith that among those threatened with the curse of Allah are: "the men who imitate women and the women who imitate men."
Dear reader, you may find when you read these examples that you recoil from them, and this is because you are judging based on the concepts of Islam that have formed in your mind. You consider them examples that deny the existence of public interest (maslaha) within them. However, when discussing reason and rational legislation, and the perspective of reason on benefits and harms as separate from the Sharia, many minds find them acceptable and legislate laws to protect them. So be aware of this so that you do not fall into a methodological error in understanding and say, rather, this is evidence that reason can estimate public interest! Thus, the reason saturated with Islamic concepts imposes itself on these issues and judges them to be harms!
From here, the term "public interest" (maslaha) in language indicates what is good, orderly, beneficial, and upright. It intersects with "benefit" (manfa'a), but it is broader and of a higher rank; because it includes the rational, moral, and systematic consideration of the effect, whereas benefit may be sought even at the expense of the truth, and its aim may be to achieve gain, profit, pleasure, and what the souls desire. Therefore, it may be a benefit, but it can also be a corruption in terms of the outcome.
Thus, we have noticed that the description of something as being in the public interest (maslaha) comes after the Sharia has ruled it to be in the public interest, and that its description as such is negated when the Sharia has ruled it to be harmful (mafsada), as in the case of usury (riba) and others. Some minds may mistakenly perceive it as an economic benefit or a utility for a segment of society, but the Sharia has clarified its corruption, thus removing it from the realm of interests, and exposing its true nature no matter how beneficial it may appear outwardly.
Imam al-Shatibi said: "The interests (masalih) are considered based on their arrangement within the system of Sharia (Islamic law), not merely because they are pleasures or benefits. This is because pleasure may lead to corruption, and benefit may result in evil. The Sharia was not established to bring about pleasures, but to achieve the true interests that sustain human life."
Imam al-Shatibi clearly distinguishes between public interest (maslaha) and benefit (manfa'a), stating in al-Muwafaqat: "Not everything that is considered a public interest by people is regarded as a legal public interest; because the legal consideration in bringing about benefits and repelling harms is based on it being...
