Opening the door to whims, as the estimation of public interest (maslaha) varies from person to person, makes legislation subject to human desires rather than to the texts of revelation.
I would add the following methodological points:
First: The absence of a strict inductive method in deriving interests, as al-Shatibi merely assumed that it is likely to be an interest, and his conditions for considering an interest involve aspects that are difficult to realize in reality. However, the more significant methodological problem is the separation of induction from textual causes; the rules derived from interest often do not rely on established, articulated causes, or on a specified type (as is the case in analogy), but rather result from a mental observation of imagined benefits, which makes it susceptible to confusion between the objectives of the Sharia (maqasid al-sharia) and speculative rational interests. Additionally, there is no scientific criterion for selecting "which" rulings are to be inferred, nor "how" they are linked to a general beneficial outcome. Induction is often based on a prior intention to prove a rational or political result and then seeking a legal endorsement for it!
Second: The difference in rational estimation of interest, due to the lack of a single objective standard that regulates the mind in determining that this is a legal interest. In this context, the methodology may be misused, leading to interests being based on superficial observations or unachieved outcomes.
Third: The confusion between legal objectives and legislative causes; the objectives are not causes but rather results. Consequently, the derived interest may be a fruit of the ruling and not a cause for it, which implies that it cannot be considered a cause (i.e., a reason for legislation) upon which inference is based. An example of this is that the Sharia came to protect wealth, but this does not mean that everything we rationally judge to protect wealth becomes a legal ruling; rather, it must be supported by a detailed evidence.
Fourth: Given our knowledge that detailed or general issues can cover all contemporary matters until the Day of Judgment, the assumption of the existence of unarticulated interests based on evidence is a flawed assumption. Hence, Imam al-Ghazali said in his book al-Mankhul: "It is correct that unqualified inference in the Sharia cannot be conceived until we discuss it in terms of negation or affirmation, as occurrences are countless, and so are interests. There is no issue proposed except that there is a legal evidence for it, either by acceptance or rejection." After discussing the types of legal rulings in terms of how to know their ruling, he concluded by saying: "Thus, every interest imagined in a situation surrounded (i.e., surrounded and encircled by conflicting principles) by conflicting principles must be supported by those principles for its rejection or acceptance. As for the estimation of its application being neglected, overlooked (in the sense of being disregarded), it is impossible to conceive."(26)
Examples illustrating these methodological errors:
The oath of the killer with the blood relatives in the case of suspicion.
__________
(26) Nu'man Jughaym, "Al-Maslahah Al-Mursalah: A Study in the Emergence of the Term and the Development of the Concept," p. 6, citing al-Mankhul, pp. 361-363.
