Al-Shawkani(32) said: "The correspondence (munasaba) is the essence of the book of analogy (qiyas) and its place of ambiguity and clarity, and extracting it is called the extraction of the basis (takhrij al-manaat)." Al-Shawkani attributed to al-Mahsool: "People have mentioned two things in defining correspondence: the first is that it leads to what is in accordance with a person in terms of acquisition and preservation, and it may be expressed as acquisition by bringing benefit and preservation by repelling harm... The second is that it is suitable for the actions of rational individuals in customs, as it is said that this pearl corresponds with this pearl in being placed together in a coherent manner." Some have defined it as that which, if presented to minds, would be accepted. Abu Zayd al-Dabbusi said this, as did al-Shatibi. Ibn Qudamah al-Maqdisi mentioned in Rawdat al-Nazir wa Jannat al-Manazir that "the correspondence is the attribute that, when establishing the ruling, results in a benefit." Ali al-Shashi, in Usul al-Shashi, gave an example saying: "If we see a person giving a poor man a dirham, it is likely that the giving is to meet the need of the poor and to acquire the reward." From this, it can be inferred that meeting the need and acquiring the reward are suitable attributes, thus serving as a reason for giving. Saif al-Din al-Amidi believes that the most accurate definition of correspondence(33) is: "It is an apparent, defined attribute that necessitates, when the ruling is arranged accordingly, the attainment of what is appropriate to be the objective of the legislation of the ruling." This definition differs from the previous definitions in that it does not show a role for the mind in establishing the correspondence, and thus in establishing the reason, and consequently in legislating by reason.(34)
The usuliyyin (principle scholars) divided the correspondences in analogy into ranks, including:
The effective correspondence: which is what has been established by text or consensus as a reason for achieving that benefit. An example is wealth, which is a suitable attribute that necessitates zakat (almsgiving), (as mentioned by al-Shawkani in Irshad al-Fuhul from al-Razi) because it serves the benefit of enriching the poor without causing harm to the rich. This is suitable in terms of the Sharia text (taking zakat from the wealthy). (That is, the mind has no authority to decide or judge in this matter, and it can only understand the correspondence from the text or texts; it is a correspondence between the ruling and the attribute, and it is the correspondence that some scholars have made one of the proofs of the causality of that attribute for that ruling. It is of the type of reason that is indicated by implication, so the correspondence in this sense must be indicated by the Sharia, and the jurist or mujtahid must understand that indication from the text or texts. To further emphasize and clarify, this meaning does not involve the jurist or mujtahid determining the correspondence by their mind, as this is mere desire and legislation by reason.(35) Rather, the reasoning is taken from the necessary implication of the word, that is, from the concept of the word and not from its literal meaning. The scholar 'Ata Abu al-Rashta said: "The meaning of the effective descriptive correspondence is that there is an influential relationship between the attribute and the ruling that is arranged upon it. For example, a judge does not rule while angry; anger is an effective descriptive correspondence that prohibits ruling. A murderer does not inherit; the killing of a father by a son corresponds to the non-inheritance of the son from his father who...
__________
(32) Irshad al-Fuhul, p. 214-215
(33) Irshad al-Fuhul, p. 214-215
(34) Al-Masalih al-Mursala, Dr. Mahmoud Abdul Hadi Fa'our.
(35) Al-Masalih al-Mursala, Dr. Mahmoud Abdul Hadi Fa'our.
